4.0/en/0x01-Frontispiece.md, before:

# Frontispiece

## About the Standard

The Application Security Verification Standard is a list of application security requirements or tests that can be used by architects, developers, testers, security professionals, and even consumers to define what a secure application is.

## Copyright and License

![license](../images/license.png)
Copyright © 2019 The OWASP Foundation. This document is released under the [Creative Commons Attribution ShareAlike 3.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/). For any reuse or distribution, you must make clear to others the license terms of this work.

## Release Candidate

This version is essentially the final version. Please don't use it just yet. If you spot issues, please log an issue here: https://github.com/OWASP/ASVS/issues

Version 4.0, 2019

## Project Leads

- Andrew van der Stock
- Daniel Cuthbert
- Jim Manico
- Josh C Grossman
- Mark Burnett

## Contributors and Reviewers

- Osama Elnaggar
- Erlend Oftedal
- Serg Belkommen
- David Johansson
- Tonimir Kisasondi
- Ron Perris
- Abhay Bhargav
- Benedikt Bauer
- Elar Lang
- ScriptingXSS
- Philippe De Ryck
- Grog's Axle
- Marco Schnüriger
- Jacob Salassi
- Glenn ten Cate
- Anthony Weems
- bschach
- javixeneize
- Dan Cornell
- hello7s
- Lewis Ardern
- Jim Newman
- Stuart Gunter
- Geoff Baskwill
- Talargoni
- Ståle Pettersen
- Kelby Ludwig
- Jason Morrow
- Rogan Dawes

Commit message:

Update to final text
Generating the CSV and final PDF required a few minor changes. There was a duplicate CWE for 5.2.5, which led to further investigation of nearby CWEs for accuracy. These have been adjusted.

4.0/en/0x01-Frontispiece.md, after:

# Frontispiece

## About the Standard

The Application Security Verification Standard is a list of application security requirements or tests that can be used by architects, developers, testers, security professionals, tool vendors, and consumers to define, build, test and verify secure applications.

## Copyright and License

![license](../images/license.png)
Copyright © 2008-2019 The OWASP Foundation. This document is released under the [Creative Commons Attribution ShareAlike 3.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/). For any reuse or distribution, you must make clear to others the license terms of this work.

Version 4.0, March 2019

## Project Leads

- Andrew van der Stock
- Daniel Cuthbert
- Jim Manico
- Josh C Grossman
- Mark Burnett

## Contributors and Reviewers

- Osama Elnaggar
- Erlend Oftedal
- Serg Belkommen
- David Johansson
- Tonimir Kisasondi
- Ron Perris
- Abhay Bhargav
- Benedikt Bauer
- Elar Lang
- ScriptingXSS
- Philippe De Ryck
- Grog's Axle
- Marco Schnüriger
- Jacob Salassi
- Glenn ten Cate
- Anthony Weems
- bschach
- javixeneize
- Dan Cornell
- hello7s
- Lewis Ardern
- Jim Newman
- Stuart Gunter
- Geoff Baskwill
- Talargoni
- Ståle Pettersen
- Kelby Ludwig
- Jason Morrow
- Rogan Dawes

The Application Security Verification Standard is built upon the shoulders of those involved from ASVS 1.0 in 2008 to 3.0 in 2016. Much of the structure and verification items that are still in the ASVS today were originally written by Mike Boberski, Jeff Williams and Dave Wichers, but there are many more contributors. Thank you to all those previously involved. For a comprehensive list of all those who have contributed to earlier versions, please consult each prior version.

If a credit is missing from the 4.0 credit list above, please contact vanderaj@owasp.org or log a ticket at GitHub to be recognized in future 4.x updates.
