# Preface

Welcome to the Application Security Verification Standard (ASVS) version 4.0. The ASVS is a community-driven effort to establish a framework of security requirements and controls that focus on defining the functional and non-functional security controls required when designing, developing and testing modern web applications and web services.

ASVS v4.0 is a culmination of community effort and industry feedback over the last decade. We have attempted to make it easier to understand how to adopt the ASVS for a variety of different use cases throughout any secure software development lifecycle. 

We expect that there will most likely never be 100% agreement on the contents of any web application standard, including the ASVS. Risk analysis is always subjective to some extent, which creates a challenge when attempting to generalize in a one-size-fits-all standard. However, we hope that the latest updates made in this version are a step in the right direction, and enhance the concepts introduced in this critical industry standard.

## What's new in 4.0

In June 2017, The National Institute of Science and Technology (NIST) released Special Publication (SP) 800-63-3, which is an updated set of digital identity guidelines. These technical guidelines provide an overview of general identity frameworks, using authenticators, credentials, and assertions together in a digital system, and a risk-based process of selecting identity and authentication assurance levels.

The most significant change in this version is the adoption of the NIST 800-63-3 guidelines, introducing controls at authentication assurance levels 1 through 3. Although we do expect there to be some pushback on this adoption, it's essential for standards to be aligned, mainly when another well-regarded application security standard is evidence-based. Information security standards should try to minimize the number of unique requirements, so that complying organizations do not have to decide on competing or incompatible controls. The OWASP Top 10 2017, the OWASP Application Security Verification Standard has now aligned with NIST 800-63 for authentication and session management. We encourage other standards-setting bodies to work with us and others to come to a generally accepted set of application security controls. 

ASVS 4.0 has been wholly renumbered from start to finish. The new numbering scheme allowed us to close up gaps from long-vanished chapters, and to allow us to segment longer chapters to minimize the number of controls that a developer or team have to comply. For example, if an application does not use JWT, the entire section on JWT in session management is not applicable. 

New in 4.0 is a comprehensive mapping to the Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE), one of the most commonly desired feature requests we've had over the last decade. This allows tool manufacturers and those using vulnerability management software to match up results from other tools and previous ASVS versions to 4.0 and later. To make room for the CWE entry, we've had to retire the "Since" column, which as we completely renumbered, makes less sense than in previous versions of the ASVS. Not every item in the ASVS has an associated CWE, and as CWE has a great deal of duplication, we've attempted to use the most commonly used rather than necessarily the closest match. Verification controls are not always mappable to equivalent weaknesses. The lack of a comprehensive mapping should become an ongoing discussion with the CWE community and information security field more generally. 

We have worked to comprehensively meet and exceed the requirements for addressing the OWASP Top 10 Risks (2017). As the OWASP Top 10 Risks is the bare minimum to avoid negligence, we have deliberately made all controls relating to OWASP Top 10 Risks to be Level 1, except for certain logging requirements, making it easier for OWASP Top 10 adopters to step up to an actual security standard.

We have ensured that the ASVS includes all the requirements and controls defined by the OWASP Top Ten Proactive Controls project (2018), and easily surpass the minimum requirements set out by PCI DSS 3.2.1 Sections 6.5. ASVS Level 1 more than meets the requirements set out for application design, coding, testing, secure code reviews, and penetration tests as documented in PCI DSS Section 6.5.x. As a result, we now cover buffer overflow and unsafe memory operations in V5, and unsafe memory-related compilation flags in V14, in addition to the industry-leading application and web service verification requirements.

We have completed the shift of the ASVS from monolithic server-side only controls, to providing security controls for all modern applications and APIs. In the days of functional programming, server-less API, mobile, cloud, IoT, CI/CD and DevOps, and federation, we cannot continue to ignore modern application architecture. Modern applications are designed differently to those in 2008 when the original ASVS was written. The ASVS must always look far into the future so that we provide sound advice for our primary audience - developers. We have clarified or dropped any requirement that assumes that applications are executed on systems owned by a single organization.

We have retired the mobile section, in favor of the Mobile Application Security Verification Standard (MASVS) and the Internet of Things section in favour of the OWASP Internet of Things Projects. We aim to support them as much as possible, by being a reference where needed. As those standards do not particularly strongly explain API security issues, we have decided to concentrate on being the best standard for web apps and all forms of API - RESTful and SOAP web services, monolithic or microservices. Mobile application developers should see the MASVS as being highly useful for mobile client issues, and the ASVS as being highly useful for mobile APIs and microservices.

Lastly, we have de-duped and retired controls that cannot get you hacked. Over time, the ASVS started being a comprehensive set of controls, but not all controls are equal at producing secure software. This effort could go further. In a future edition of the ASVS, the Common Weakness Scoring System (CWSS) will prioritize further those controls which are truly important and those that should be retired.