4.0/en/0x04-Assessment_and_Certification.md, before:

# Assessment and Certification

## OWASP's Stance on ASVS Certifications and Trust Marks

OWASP, as a vendor-neutral not-for-profit organization, does not currently certify any vendors, verifiers or software.

All such assurance assertions, trust marks, or certifications are not officially vetted, registered, or certified by OWASP, so an organization relying upon such a view needs to be cautious of the trust placed in any third party or trust mark claiming ASVS certification.

This should not inhibit organizations from offering such assurance services, as long as they do not claim official OWASP certification.

## Guidance for Certifying Organizations

The Application Security Verification Standard can be used as an open book verification of the application, including open and unfettered access to key resources such as architects and developers, project documentation, source code, authenticated access to test systems (including access to one or more accounts in each role), particularly for L2 and L3 verifications.

Historically, penetration testing and secure code reviews have included issues “by exception” - that is only failed tests appear in the final report. A certifying organization must include in any report the scope of the verification (particularly if a key component is out of scope, such as SSO authentication), a summary of verification findings, including passed and failed tests, with clear indications of how to resolve the failed tests.

Certain verification requirements may not be applicable to the application under test. For example, if you provide a stateless service layer API without a client implementation to your customers, many of the requirements in V3 Session Management are not directly applicable. In such cases, a certifying organization may still claim full ASVS compliance, but must clearly indicate in any report a reason for non-applicability of such excluded verification requirements.

Keeping detailed work papers, screenshots or movies, scripts to reliably and repeatedly exploit an issue, and electronic records of testing, such as intercepting proxy logs and associated notes such as a cleanup list, is considered standard industry practice and can be really useful as proofs of the findings for the most doubtful developers. It is not sufficient to simply run a tool and report on the failures; this does not (at all) provide sufficient evidence that all issues at a certifying level have been tested and tested thoroughly. In case of dispute, there should be sufficient assurance evidence to demonstrate each and every verified requirement has indeed been tested.

### Testing Method

Certifying organizations are free to choose the appropriate testing method(s), but should indicate them in a report.

Depending on the application under test and the verification requirement, different testing methods may be used to gain similar confidence in the results. For example, validating the effectiveness of an application's input verification mechanisms may either be analysed with a manual penetration test or by means of source code analyses.

#### The Role of Automated Security Testing Tools

The use of automated penetration testing tools is encouraged to provide as much coverage as possible.

It is not possible to fully complete ASVS verification using automated penetration testing tools alone. Whilst a large majority of requirements in L1 can be performed using automated tests, the overall majority of requirements are not amenable to automated penetration testing.

Please note that the lines between automated and manual testing have blurred as the application security industry matures. Automated tools are often manually tuned by experts and manual testers often leverage a wide variety of automated tools.

#### The Role of Penetration Testing

It is possible to perform a manual penetration test and verify a large number of L1 issues without requiring access to source code, however there are a handful of situations where this isn't possible. Where possible, access to developers, documentation, code, and  varying levels of user access for the target system, is required when performing a L2 Assessment. Complete penetration testing coverage at Level 3 is not possible, as most of the additional issues involve review of system configuration, malicious code review, threat modeling, and other non-penetration testing artifacts.

## Other uses for the ASVS

Aside from being used to assess the security of an application, we have identified a number of other potential uses for the ASVS.

### As Detailed Security Architecture Guidance

One of the more common uses for the Application Security Verification Standard is as a resource for security architects. The Sherwood Applied Business Security Architecture (SABSA) is missing a great deal of information that is necessary to complete a thorough application security architecture review. ASVS can be used to fill in those gaps by allowing security architects to choose better controls for common problems, such as data protection patterns and input validation strategies.

### As a Replacement for Off-the-shelf Secure Coding Checklists

Many organizations can benefit from adopting the ASVS, by choosing one of the three levels, or by forking ASVS and changing what is required for each application risk level in a domain specific way. We encourage this type of forking as long as traceability is maintained, so that if an app has passed requirement 4.1, this means the same thing for forked copies as the standard as it evolves.

### As a Guide for Automated Unit and Integration Tests

The ASVS is designed to be highly testable, with the sole exception of architectural and malicious code requirements. By building unit and integration tests that test for specific and relevant fuzz and abuse cases, the application becomes nearly self-verifying with each and every build. For example, additional tests can be crafted for the test suite for a login controller, testing the username parameter for common default usernames, account enumeration, brute forcing, LDAP and SQL injection, and XSS. Similarly, a test on the password parameter should include common passwords, password length, null byte injection, removing the parameter, XSS, and more.

### For Secure Development Training

ASVS can also be used to define characteristics of secure software. Many “secure coding” courses are simply ethical hacking courses with a light smear of coding tips. This may not necessarily help developers to write more secure code. Instead, secure development courses can use the ASVS with a strong focus on the proactive controls found in the ASVS, rather than the Top 10 negative things not to do.

### As a Driver for Agile Application Security

ASVS can be used in an agile development process as a framework to define specific tasks that need to be implemented by the team to have a secure product. One approach might be: Starting with Level 1, verify the specific application or system according to ASVS requirements for the specified level, find what controls are missing and raise specific tickets/tasks in the backlog. This helps with prioritization of specific tasks (or grooming), and makes security visible in the agile process. This can also be used to prioritize auditing and reviewing tasks in the organization, where a specific ASVS requirement can be a driver for review, refactor or auditing for a specific team member and visible as "debt" in the backlog that needs to be eventually done.

### As a Framework for Guiding the Procurement of Secure Software

ASVS is a great framework to help with secure software procurement or procurement of custom development services. The buyer can simply set a requirement that the software they wish to procure must be developed at ASVS level X, and request that the seller proves that the software satisfies ASVS level X. This works well when combined with the OWASP Secure Software Contract Annex

Commit message:

Update to final text
Generating the CSV and final PDF required a few minor changes. There was a duplicate CWE for 5.2.5, which led to further investigation of nearby CWEs for accuracy. These have been adjusted.

4.0/en/0x04-Assessment_and_Certification.md, after:

# Assessment and Certification

## OWASP's Stance on ASVS Certifications and Trust Marks

OWASP, as a vendor-neutral not-for-profit organization, does not currently certify any vendors, verifiers or software.

All such assurance assertions, trust marks, or certifications are not officially vetted, registered, or certified by OWASP, so an organization relying upon such a view needs to be cautious of the trust placed in any third party or trust mark claiming ASVS certification.

This should not inhibit organizations from offering such assurance services, as long as they do not claim official OWASP certification.

## Guidance for Certifying Organizations

The Application Security Verification Standard can be used as an open book verification of the application, including open and unfettered access to key resources such as architects and developers, project documentation, source code, authenticated access to test systems (including access to one or more accounts in each role), particularly for L2 and L3 verifications.

Historically, penetration testing and secure code reviews have included issues “by exception” - that is only failed tests appear in the final report. A certifying organization must include in any report the scope of the verification (particularly if a key component is out of scope, such as SSO authentication), a summary of verification findings, including passed and failed tests, with clear indications of how to resolve the failed tests.

Certain verification requirements may not be applicable to the application under test. For example, if you provide a stateless service layer API without a client implementation to your customers, many of the requirements in V3 Session Management are not directly applicable. In such cases, a certifying organization may still claim full ASVS compliance, but must clearly indicate in any report a reason for non-applicability of such excluded verification requirements.

Keeping detailed work papers, screenshots or movies, scripts to reliably and repeatedly exploit an issue, and electronic records of testing, such as intercepting proxy logs and associated notes such as a cleanup list, is considered standard industry practice and can be really useful as proofs of the findings for the most doubtful developers. It is not sufficient to simply run a tool and report on the failures; this does not (at all) provide sufficient evidence that all issues at a certifying level have been tested and tested thoroughly. In case of dispute, there should be sufficient assurance evidence to demonstrate each and every verified requirement has indeed been tested.

### Testing Method

Certifying organizations are free to choose the appropriate testing method(s), but should indicate them in a report.

Depending on the application under test and the verification requirement, different testing methods may be used to gain similar confidence in the results. For example, validating the effectiveness of an application's input verification mechanisms may either be analysed with a manual penetration test or by means of source code analyses.

#### The Role of Automated Security Testing Tools

The use of automated penetration testing tools is encouraged to provide as much coverage as possible.

It is not possible to fully complete ASVS verification using automated penetration testing tools alone. Whilst a large majority of requirements in L1 can be performed using automated tests, the overall majority of requirements are not amenable to automated penetration testing.

Please note that the lines between automated and manual testing have blurred as the application security industry matures. Automated tools are often manually tuned by experts and manual testers often leverage a wide variety of automated tools.

#### The Role of Penetration Testing

In version 4.0, we decided to make L1 completely penetration testable without access to source code, documentation, or developers. Two logging items, which are required to comply with OWASP Top 10 2017 A10, will require interviews, screenshots or other evidence collection, just as they do in the OWASP Top 10 2017. However, testing without access to necessary information is not an ideal method of security verification, as it misses out on the possibility of reviewing the source, identifying threats and missing controls, and performing a far more thorough test in a shorter timeframe. 

Where possible, access to developers, documentation, code, and access to a test application with non-production data, is required when performing a L2 or L3 Assessment. Penetration testing done at these levels requires this level of access, which we call "hybrid reviews" or "hybrid penetration tests". 

## Other uses for the ASVS

Aside from being used to assess the security of an application, we have identified a number of other potential uses for the ASVS.

### As Detailed Security Architecture Guidance

One of the more common uses for the Application Security Verification Standard is as a resource for security architects. The Sherwood Applied Business Security Architecture (SABSA) is missing a great deal of information that is necessary to complete a thorough application security architecture review. ASVS can be used to fill in those gaps by allowing security architects to choose better controls for common problems, such as data protection patterns and input validation strategies.

### As a Replacement for Off-the-shelf Secure Coding Checklists

Many organizations can benefit from adopting the ASVS, by choosing one of the three levels, or by forking ASVS and changing what is required for each application risk level in a domain specific way. We encourage this type of forking as long as traceability is maintained, so that if an app has passed requirement 4.1, this means the same thing for forked copies as the standard as it evolves.

### As a Guide for Automated Unit and Integration Tests

The ASVS is designed to be highly testable, with the sole exception of architectural and malicious code requirements. By building unit and integration tests that test for specific and relevant fuzz and abuse cases, the application becomes nearly self-verifying with each and every build. For example, additional tests can be crafted for the test suite for a login controller, testing the username parameter for common default usernames, account enumeration, brute forcing, LDAP and SQL injection, and XSS. Similarly, a test on the password parameter should include common passwords, password length, null byte injection, removing the parameter, XSS, and more.

### For Secure Development Training

ASVS can also be used to define characteristics of secure software. Many “secure coding” courses are simply ethical hacking courses with a light smear of coding tips. This may not necessarily help developers to write more secure code. Instead, secure development courses can use the ASVS with a strong focus on the proactive controls found in the ASVS, rather than the Top 10 negative things not to do.

### As a Driver for Agile Application Security

ASVS can be used in an agile development process as a framework to define specific tasks that need to be implemented by the team to have a secure product. One approach might be: Starting with Level 1, verify the specific application or system according to ASVS requirements for the specified level, find what controls are missing and raise specific tickets/tasks in the backlog. This helps with prioritization of specific tasks (or grooming), and makes security visible in the agile process. This can also be used to prioritize auditing and reviewing tasks in the organization, where a specific ASVS requirement can be a driver for review, refactor or auditing for a specific team member and visible as "debt" in the backlog that needs to be eventually done.

### As a Framework for Guiding the Procurement of Secure Software

ASVS is a great framework to help with secure software procurement or procurement of custom development services. The buyer can simply set a requirement that the software they wish to procure must be developed at ASVS level X, and request that the seller proves that the software satisfies ASVS level X. This works well when combined with the OWASP Secure Software Contract Annex
