4.0/en/0x14-V7-Cryptography.md, before:

# V7: Stored Cryptography Verification Requirements

## Control Objective

Ensure that a verified application satisfies the following high level requirements:

* All cryptographic modules fail in a secure manner and that errors are handled correctly.
* A suitable random number generator is used.
* Access to keys is managed in a secure way.

## 7.1 Data Classification

The most important asset is the data processed, stored or transmitted by an application. Always perform a privacy impact assessment to correctly classify the data protection needs of any stored data.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | Since |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | -- | -- |
| **7.1.1** | Verify that regulated private data is stored encrypted while at rest, such as personally identifiable information (PII), sensitive personal information, or data assessed likely to be subject to EU's GDPR. |  | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |
| **7.1.2** | Verify that regulated health data is stored encrypted while at rest, such as medical records, medical device details, or de-anonymized research records. |  | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |
| **7.1.3** | Verify that regulated financial data is stored encrypted while at rest, such as financial accounts, defaults or credit history, tax records, pay history, beneficiaries, or de-anonymized market or research records. |  | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |

## 7.2 Architecture

Applications need to be designed with strong cryptographic architecture to protect data assets as per their classification. Encrypting everything is wasteful, not encrypting anything is legally negligent. A balance must be struck, usually during architectual or high level design, design sprints or architectual spikes. Designing cryptography as you go or retrofitting it will inevitably cost a great deal more to implement securely than simply building it in from the start.

Architectural requirements are intrinsic to the entire code base, and thus difficult to unit or integrate test. Architectural requirements require consideration in coding standards, throughout the coding phase, and should be reviewed during security architecture, peer or code reviews, or retrospectives.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | Since |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | -- | -- |
| **7.2.1** | Verify that consumers of cryptographic services protect key material and other secrets by using key vaults or API based alternatives. |  | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |
| **7.2.2** | Verify that all keys and passwords are replaceable and are part of a well defined process to re-encrypt sensitive data. |  | ✓ | ✓ | 3.0 |
| **7.2.3** | Verify that symmetric keys, passwords, or API secrets generated by or shared with clients are used only in protecting low risk secrets, such as encrypting local storage, or temporary ephemeral uses such as parameter obfuscation. Sharing secrets with clients is clear-text equivalent and architecturally should be treated as such. |  | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |

## 7.3 Algorithms

Recent advances in cryptography mean that previously safe algorithms and key lengths are no longer safe or sufficient to protect data. Therefore, it should be possible to change algorithms.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | Since |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | -- | -- |
| **7.3.1** | Verify that industry proven or government approved cryptographic algorithms and modes are used, instead of custom coded cryptography. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |
| **7.3.2** | Verify that encryption input vector, cipher configuration, and block modes are configured securely using the latest advice. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |
| **7.3.3** | Verify that all cryptographic modules fail securely, and errors are handled in a way that does not enable Padding Oracle attacks. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 1.0 |
| **7.3.4** | Verify that random number, encryption or hashing algorithms, key lengths, rounds, ciphers or modes, can be reconfigured, upgraded, or swapped at any time, to protect against cryptographic breaks. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |

## 7.4 Random Values

True pseudo-random number generation (PRNG) is incredibly difficult to get right. Generally, good sources of entropy within a system will be quickly depleted if over-used, but sources with less randomness can lead to predictable keys and secrets.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | Since |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | -- | -- |
| **7.4.1** | Verify that all random numbers, random file names, random GUIDs, and random strings are generated using the cryptographic module's approved random number generator when these random values are intended to be not guessable by an attacker. |  | ✓ | ✓ | 1.0 |
| **7.4.2** | Verify that random numbers are created with proper entropy even when the application is under heavy load, or that the application degrades gracefully in such circumstances. |  |  | ✓ | 3.0 |

## 7.5 Secret Management

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | Since |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | -- | -- |
| **7.5.1** | Verify that sensitive passwords or key material maintained in memory is overwritten with zeros as soon as it is no longer required, to mitigate memory dumping attacks. |  | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |

## References

For more information, see also:

* [OWASP Testing Guide 4.0: Testing for weak Cryptography](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Testing_for_weak_Cryptography)
* [OWASP Cheat Sheet: Cryptographic Storage](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cryptographic_Storage_Cheat_Sheet)
* [FIPS 140-2](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/fips/140/2/final)

Commit message:

Add requirement for secrets management
This is to be in line with proactive controls

4.0/en/0x14-V7-Cryptography.md, after:

# V7: Stored Cryptography Verification Requirements

## Control Objective

Ensure that a verified application satisfies the following high level requirements:

* All cryptographic modules fail in a secure manner and that errors are handled correctly.
* A suitable random number generator is used.
* Access to keys is managed in a secure way.

## 7.1 Data Classification

The most important asset is the data processed, stored or transmitted by an application. Always perform a privacy impact assessment to correctly classify the data protection needs of any stored data.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | Since |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | -- | -- |
| **7.1.1** | Verify that regulated private data is stored encrypted while at rest, such as personally identifiable information (PII), sensitive personal information, or data assessed likely to be subject to EU's GDPR. |  | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |
| **7.1.2** | Verify that regulated health data is stored encrypted while at rest, such as medical records, medical device details, or de-anonymized research records. |  | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |
| **7.1.3** | Verify that regulated financial data is stored encrypted while at rest, such as financial accounts, defaults or credit history, tax records, pay history, beneficiaries, or de-anonymized market or research records. |  | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |

## 7.2 Architecture

Applications need to be designed with strong cryptographic architecture to protect data assets as per their classification. Encrypting everything is wasteful, not encrypting anything is legally negligent. A balance must be struck, usually during architectual or high level design, design sprints or architectual spikes. Designing cryptography as you go or retrofitting it will inevitably cost a great deal more to implement securely than simply building it in from the start.

Architectural requirements are intrinsic to the entire code base, and thus difficult to unit or integrate test. Architectural requirements require consideration in coding standards, throughout the coding phase, and should be reviewed during security architecture, peer or code reviews, or retrospectives.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | Since |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | -- | -- |
| **7.2.1** | Verify that consumers of cryptographic services protect key material and other secrets by using key vaults or API based alternatives. |  | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |
| **7.2.2** | Verify that all keys and passwords are replaceable and are part of a well defined process to re-encrypt sensitive data. |  | ✓ | ✓ | 3.0 |
| **7.2.3** | Verify that symmetric keys, passwords, or API secrets generated by or shared with clients are used only in protecting low risk secrets, such as encrypting local storage, or temporary ephemeral uses such as parameter obfuscation. Sharing secrets with clients is clear-text equivalent and architecturally should be treated as such. |  | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |

## 7.3 Algorithms

Recent advances in cryptography mean that previously safe algorithms and key lengths are no longer safe or sufficient to protect data. Therefore, it should be possible to change algorithms.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | Since |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | -- | -- |
| **7.3.1** | Verify that industry proven or government approved cryptographic algorithms and modes are used, instead of custom coded cryptography. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |
| **7.3.2** | Verify that encryption input vector, cipher configuration, and block modes are configured securely using the latest advice. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |
| **7.3.3** | Verify that all cryptographic modules fail securely, and errors are handled in a way that does not enable Padding Oracle attacks. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 1.0 |
| **7.3.4** | Verify that random number, encryption or hashing algorithms, key lengths, rounds, ciphers or modes, can be reconfigured, upgraded, or swapped at any time, to protect against cryptographic breaks. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |

## 7.4 Random Values

True pseudo-random number generation (PRNG) is incredibly difficult to get right. Generally, good sources of entropy within a system will be quickly depleted if over-used, but sources with less randomness can lead to predictable keys and secrets.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | Since |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | -- | -- |
| **7.4.1** | Verify that all random numbers, random file names, random GUIDs, and random strings are generated using the cryptographic module's approved random number generator when these random values are intended to be not guessable by an attacker. |  | ✓ | ✓ | 1.0 |
| **7.4.2** | Verify that random numbers are created with proper entropy even when the application is under heavy load, or that the application degrades gracefully in such circumstances. |  |  | ✓ | 3.0 |

## 7.5 Secret Management

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | Since |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | -- | -- |
| **7.5.1** | Verify that a secrets management solution such as a key vault is used to main secrests rather than code, config files or environment variables. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |
| **7.5.2** | Verify that sensitive passwords or key material maintained in memory is overwritten with zeros as soon as it is no longer required, to mitigate memory dumping attacks. |  | ✓ | ✓ | 4.0 |

## References

For more information, see also:

* [OWASP Testing Guide 4.0: Testing for weak Cryptography](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Testing_for_weak_Cryptography)
* [OWASP Cheat Sheet: Cryptographic Storage](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cryptographic_Storage_Cheat_Sheet)
* [FIPS 140-2](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/fips/140/2/final)
