5.0/en/0x12-V3-Session-management.md, before:

# V3 Session Management

## Control Objective

One of the core components of any web-based application or stateful API is the mechanism by which it controls and maintains the state for a user or device interacting with it. Session management changes a stateless protocol to stateful, which is critical for differentiating different users or devices.

Ensure that a verified application satisfies the following high-level session management requirements:

* Sessions are unique to each individual and cannot be guessed or shared.
* Sessions are invalidated when no longer required and timed out during periods of inactivity.

As previously noted, these requirements have been adapted to be a compliant subset of selected NIST SP 800-63B controls, focused on common threats and commonly exploited authentication weaknesses. Previous verification requirements have been retired, de-duped, or in most cases adapted to be strongly aligned with the intent of mandatory [NIST SP 800-63B](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) requirements.

## V3.1 Fundamental Session Management Security

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE | [NIST &sect;](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **3.1.1** | [DELETED, MERGED TO 8.3.1] | | | | | |
| **3.1.2** | [ADDED] Verify that the application performs all session token verification using a trusted, back-end service. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 603 | |
| **3.1.3** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 3.5.2, LEVEL L2 > L1] Verify that the application uses either cryptographically signed or opaque tokens for session management. Static API secrets and keys should be avoided. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 798 | 7.1 |

## V3.2 Session Binding

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE | [NIST &sect;](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **3.2.1** | [MODIFIED] Verify the application generates a new session token on user authentication, including re-authentication, and terminates the current session token. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 384 | 7.1 |
| **3.2.2** | [MODIFIED] Verify that opaque session tokens possess at least 128 bits of entropy. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 331 | 7.1 |
| **3.2.3** | [DELETED, MERGED TO 8.2.2] | | | | | |
| **3.2.4** | [MODIFIED] Verify that opaque session tokens are generated using a secure random function. | | ✓ | ✓ | 330 | 7.1 |
| **3.2.5** | [ADDED] Verify that creating a session for the application requires the user's consent and that the application is protected against a CSRF-style attack where a new application session for the user is created via SSO without user interaction. | | ✓ | ✓ | | |

TLS or another secure transport channel is mandatory for session management. This is covered in the Communications Security chapter.

## V3.3 Session Timeout

Session timeouts have been aligned with NIST SP 800-63, which permits much longer session timeouts than traditionally permitted by security standards. Organizations are advised to review the table below. If a longer timeout is desired based on the application's risk profile, the NIST value should serve as the maximum limit for session idle timeouts.

L1 in this context is IAL1/AAL1, L2 is IAL2/AAL3, L3 is IAL3/AAL3. For both IAL2/AAL2 and IAL3/AAL3, the shorter the idle timeout, the lower the bound of idle times for being logged out or re-authenticated to resume the session.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE | [NIST &sect;](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **3.3.1** | [MOVED TO 3.8.1] | | | | | |
| **3.3.2** | [MODIFIED, SPLIT TO 3.3.5] Verify that there is an absolute maximum session lifetime such that re-authentication is required at least every 30 days for L1 applications or every 12 hours for L2 and L3 applications. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 613 | 7.2 |
| **3.3.3** | [MOVED TO 3.8.2] | | | | | |
| **3.3.4** | [MOVED TO 3.8.3] | | | | | |
| **3.3.5** | [ADDED, SPLIT FROM 3.3.2] Verify that re-authentication is required after 30 minutes of inactivity for L2 applications or after 15 minutes of inactivity for L3 applications. | | ✓ | ✓ | 613 | 7.2 |

## V3.4 Cookie-based Session Management

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE | [NIST &sect;](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **3.4.1** | Verify that cookie-based session tokens have the 'Secure' attribute set. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 614 | 7.1.1 |
| **3.4.2** | [MODIFIED] Verify that cookie-based session tokens are not readable by client-side scripts. The session token cookie should have the 'HttpOnly' attribute set and the session token value should only be transferred to the client via the Set-Cookie header. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 1004 | 7.1.1 |
| **3.4.3** | Verify that cookie-based session tokens utilize the 'SameSite' attribute to limit exposure to cross-site request forgery attacks. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 1275 | 7.1.1 |
| **3.4.4** | Verify that cookie-based session tokens use the "__Host-" prefix so cookies are only sent to the host that initially set the cookie. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 16 | 7.1.1 |
| **3.4.5** | [DELETED, DEPRECATED BY 50.1.1] | | | | | |

## V3.5 Token-based Session Management

Token-based session management includes JWT, OAuth, SAML, and API keys. Of these, API keys are known to be weak and should not be used in new code. JWTs and SAML tokens are examples of stateless session tokens. All checks noted below should be enforced by a trusted, back-end service as noted above.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE | [NIST &sect;](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **3.5.1** | [GRAMMAR] Verify that the application allows users to revoke OAuth tokens that form trust relationships with linked applications. | | ✓ | ✓ | 290 | 7.1.2 |
| **3.5.2** | [MOVED TO 3.1.3] | | | | | |
| **3.5.3** | [MODIFIED, LEVEL L2 > L1] Verify that stateless session tokens make use of a digital signature to protect against tampering and this is checked before processing it further. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 345 | |
| **3.5.4** | [ADDED] Verify that stateless tokens are checked for expiration before processing them further. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 613 | |
| **3.5.5** | [ADDED] Verify that only signing algorithms on an allowlist are allowed for a stateless token. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 757 | |
| **3.5.6** | [ADDED] Verify that other, security-sensitive attributes of a stateless token are being verified. For example, in a JWT this may include issuer, subject, and audience. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 287 | |
| **3.5.7** | [ADDED] Verify that all active stateless tokens, which are being relied upon for access control decisions, are revoked when admins change the entitlements or roles of the user. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 613 | |

## V3.6 Federated Re-authentication

This section relates to those writing Relying Party (RP) or Credential Service Provider (CSP) code. If relying on code implementing these features, ensure that these issues are handled correctly.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE | [NIST &sect;](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **3.6.1** | Verify that Relying Parties (RPs) specify the maximum authentication time to Credential Service Providers (CSPs) and that CSPs re-authenticate the user if they haven't used a session within that period. | | | ✓ | 613 | 7.2.1 |
| **3.6.2** | Verify that Credential Service Providers (CSPs) inform Relying Parties (RPs) of the last authentication event, to allow RPs to determine if they need to re-authenticate the user. | | | ✓ | 613 | 7.2.1 |

## V3.7 Defenses Against Session Management Exploits

There are a small number of session management attacks, some related to the user experience (UX) of sessions. Previously, based on ISO 27002 requirements, the ASVS has required blocking multiple simultaneous sessions. Blocking simultaneous sessions is no longer appropriate, not only as modern users have many devices or the app is an API without a browser session, but in most of these implementations, the last authenticator wins, which is often the attacker. This section provides leading guidance on deterring, delaying and detecting session management attacks using code.

### Description of the half-open Attack

In early 2018, several financial institutions were compromised using what the attackers called "half-open attacks". This term has stuck in the industry. The attackers struck multiple institutions with different proprietary code bases, and indeed it seems different code bases within the same institutions. The half-open attack exploits a design pattern flaw commonly present in many authentication, session management and access control systems.

Attackers start a half-open attack by attempting to lock, reset, or recover a credential. A popular session management design pattern re-uses user profile session objects/models between unauthenticated, half-authenticated (password resets, forgot username), and fully authenticated code. This design pattern populates a valid session object or token containing the victim's profile, including password hashes and roles. If access control checks in controllers or routers do not correctly verify that the user is fully logged in, the attacker will be able to act as the user. Attacks could include changing the user's password to a known value, updating the email address to perform a valid password reset, disabling multi-factor authentication or enrolling a new MFA device, revealing or changing API keys, and so on.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE | [NIST &sect;](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **3.7.1** | [MODIFIED] Verify that the application requires re-authentication or secondary verification before allowing highly sensitive transactions, modifications to account profile or authentication settings, or a large export of sensitive data. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 306 | |

## V3.8 Session Termination

Session termination may be handled either by the application itself or by the SSO provider if the SSO provider is handling session management instead of the application. It may be necessary to decide whether the SSO provider is in scope when considering the requirements in this section as some may be controlled by the provider.

Session termination should result in requiring re-authentication and be effective across the application, federated login (if present), and any relying parties.

For stateful session mechanisms, this should just require invalidating the session at the backend. If a stateless session mechanism with signed tokens is being used, a way to revoke these tokens will be needed.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE | [NIST &sect;](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **3.8.1** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 3.3.1] Verify that logout and expiration terminate the user's session, such that the back button or a downstream relying party cannot resume an authenticated session. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 613 | 7.1 |
| **3.8.2** | [MODIFIED, LEVEL L2 > L1, MOVED FROM 3.3.3] Verify that the application gives the option to terminate all other active sessions after a successful change or removal of any authentication factor (including password change via reset or recovery and, if present, an MFA settings update). | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 613 | |
| **3.8.3** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 3.3.4] Verify that users are able to view and (having re-entered login credentials) terminate any or all currently active sessions. | | ✓ | ✓ | 613 | 7.1 |
| **3.8.4** | [ADDED] Verify that all pages that require authentication have easy and visible access to logout functionality. | | ✓ | ✓ | | |
| **3.8.5** | [ADDED] Verify that the application terminates all active sessions when a user account is disabled or deleted (such as an employee leaving the company). | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 613 | |
| **3.8.6** | [ADDED] Verify that application administrators are able to terminate active sessions for an individual user or for all users. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 613 | 7.1 |

## References

For more information, see also:

* [OWASP Testing Guide 4.0: Session Management Testing](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/v41/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/06-Session_Management_Testing/README.html)
* [OWASP Session Management Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Session_Management_Cheat_Sheet.html)
* [Set-Cookie __Host- prefix details](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie#cookie_prefixes)

Commit message:

no cross-usage for tokens

5.0/en/0x12-V3-Session-management.md, after:

# V3 Session Management

## Control Objective

One of the core components of any web-based application or stateful API is the mechanism by which it controls and maintains the state for a user or device interacting with it. Session management changes a stateless protocol to stateful, which is critical for differentiating different users or devices.

Ensure that a verified application satisfies the following high-level session management requirements:

* Sessions are unique to each individual and cannot be guessed or shared.
* Sessions are invalidated when no longer required and timed out during periods of inactivity.

As previously noted, these requirements have been adapted to be a compliant subset of selected NIST SP 800-63B controls, focused on common threats and commonly exploited authentication weaknesses. Previous verification requirements have been retired, de-duped, or in most cases adapted to be strongly aligned with the intent of mandatory [NIST SP 800-63B](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) requirements.

## V3.1 Fundamental Session Management Security

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE | [NIST &sect;](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **3.1.1** | [DELETED, MERGED TO 8.3.1] | | | | | |
| **3.1.2** | [ADDED] Verify that the application performs all session token verification using a trusted, back-end service. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 603 | |
| **3.1.3** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 3.5.2, LEVEL L2 > L1] Verify that the application uses either cryptographically signed or opaque tokens for session management. Static API secrets and keys should be avoided. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 798 | 7.1 |

## V3.2 Session Binding

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE | [NIST &sect;](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **3.2.1** | [MODIFIED] Verify the application generates a new session token on user authentication, including re-authentication, and terminates the current session token. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 384 | 7.1 |
| **3.2.2** | [MODIFIED] Verify that opaque session tokens possess at least 128 bits of entropy. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 331 | 7.1 |
| **3.2.3** | [DELETED, MERGED TO 8.2.2] | | | | | |
| **3.2.4** | [MODIFIED] Verify that opaque session tokens are generated using a secure random function. | | ✓ | ✓ | 330 | 7.1 |
| **3.2.5** | [ADDED] Verify that creating a session for the application requires the user's consent and that the application is protected against a CSRF-style attack where a new application session for the user is created via SSO without user interaction. | | ✓ | ✓ | | |

TLS or another secure transport channel is mandatory for session management. This is covered in the Communications Security chapter.

## V3.3 Session Timeout

Session timeouts have been aligned with NIST SP 800-63, which permits much longer session timeouts than traditionally permitted by security standards. Organizations are advised to review the table below. If a longer timeout is desired based on the application's risk profile, the NIST value should serve as the maximum limit for session idle timeouts.

L1 in this context is IAL1/AAL1, L2 is IAL2/AAL3, L3 is IAL3/AAL3. For both IAL2/AAL2 and IAL3/AAL3, the shorter the idle timeout, the lower the bound of idle times for being logged out or re-authenticated to resume the session.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE | [NIST &sect;](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **3.3.1** | [MOVED TO 3.8.1] | | | | | |
| **3.3.2** | [MODIFIED, SPLIT TO 3.3.5] Verify that there is an absolute maximum session lifetime such that re-authentication is required at least every 30 days for L1 applications or every 12 hours for L2 and L3 applications. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 613 | 7.2 |
| **3.3.3** | [MOVED TO 3.8.2] | | | | | |
| **3.3.4** | [MOVED TO 3.8.3] | | | | | |
| **3.3.5** | [ADDED, SPLIT FROM 3.3.2] Verify that re-authentication is required after 30 minutes of inactivity for L2 applications or after 15 minutes of inactivity for L3 applications. | | ✓ | ✓ | 613 | 7.2 |

## V3.4 Cookie-based Session Management

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE | [NIST &sect;](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **3.4.1** | Verify that cookie-based session tokens have the 'Secure' attribute set. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 614 | 7.1.1 |
| **3.4.2** | [MODIFIED] Verify that cookie-based session tokens are not readable by client-side scripts. The session token cookie should have the 'HttpOnly' attribute set and the session token value should only be transferred to the client via the Set-Cookie header. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 1004 | 7.1.1 |
| **3.4.3** | Verify that cookie-based session tokens utilize the 'SameSite' attribute to limit exposure to cross-site request forgery attacks. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 1275 | 7.1.1 |
| **3.4.4** | Verify that cookie-based session tokens use the "__Host-" prefix so cookies are only sent to the host that initially set the cookie. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 16 | 7.1.1 |
| **3.4.5** | [DELETED, DEPRECATED BY 50.1.1] | | | | | |

## V3.5 Token-based Session Management

Token-based session management includes JWT, OAuth, SAML, and API keys. Of these, API keys are known to be weak and should not be used in new code. JWTs and SAML tokens are examples of stateless session tokens. All checks noted below should be enforced by a trusted, back-end service as noted above.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE | [NIST &sect;](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **3.5.1** | [GRAMMAR] Verify that the application allows users to revoke OAuth tokens that form trust relationships with linked applications. | | ✓ | ✓ | 290 | 7.1.2 |
| **3.5.2** | [MOVED TO 3.1.3] | | | | | |
| **3.5.3** | [MODIFIED, LEVEL L2 > L1] Verify that stateless session tokens make use of a digital signature to protect against tampering and this is checked before processing it further. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 345 | |
| **3.5.4** | [ADDED] Verify that stateless tokens are checked for expiration before processing them further. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 613 | |
| **3.5.5** | [ADDED] Verify that only signing algorithms on an allowlist are allowed for a stateless token. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 757 | |
| **3.5.6** | [ADDED] Verify that other, security-sensitive attributes of a stateless token are being verified. For example, in a JWT this may include issuer, subject, and audience. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 287 | |
| **3.5.7** | [ADDED] Verify that all active stateless tokens, which are being relied upon for access control decisions, are revoked when admins change the entitlements or roles of the user. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 613 | |
| **3.5.8** | [ADDED] Verify that tokens (such as ID tokens, access tokens and refresh tokens) can only be used for their intended purpose. For example, ID tokens can only be used to prove user authentication for the client. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | | |

## V3.6 Federated Re-authentication

This section relates to those writing Relying Party (RP) or Credential Service Provider (CSP) code. If relying on code implementing these features, ensure that these issues are handled correctly.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE | [NIST &sect;](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **3.6.1** | Verify that Relying Parties (RPs) specify the maximum authentication time to Credential Service Providers (CSPs) and that CSPs re-authenticate the user if they haven't used a session within that period. | | | ✓ | 613 | 7.2.1 |
| **3.6.2** | Verify that Credential Service Providers (CSPs) inform Relying Parties (RPs) of the last authentication event, to allow RPs to determine if they need to re-authenticate the user. | | | ✓ | 613 | 7.2.1 |

## V3.7 Defenses Against Session Management Exploits

There are a small number of session management attacks, some related to the user experience (UX) of sessions. Previously, based on ISO 27002 requirements, the ASVS has required blocking multiple simultaneous sessions. Blocking simultaneous sessions is no longer appropriate, not only as modern users have many devices or the app is an API without a browser session, but in most of these implementations, the last authenticator wins, which is often the attacker. This section provides leading guidance on deterring, delaying and detecting session management attacks using code.

### Description of the half-open Attack

In early 2018, several financial institutions were compromised using what the attackers called "half-open attacks". This term has stuck in the industry. The attackers struck multiple institutions with different proprietary code bases, and indeed it seems different code bases within the same institutions. The half-open attack exploits a design pattern flaw commonly present in many authentication, session management and access control systems.

Attackers start a half-open attack by attempting to lock, reset, or recover a credential. A popular session management design pattern re-uses user profile session objects/models between unauthenticated, half-authenticated (password resets, forgot username), and fully authenticated code. This design pattern populates a valid session object or token containing the victim's profile, including password hashes and roles. If access control checks in controllers or routers do not correctly verify that the user is fully logged in, the attacker will be able to act as the user. Attacks could include changing the user's password to a known value, updating the email address to perform a valid password reset, disabling multi-factor authentication or enrolling a new MFA device, revealing or changing API keys, and so on.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE | [NIST &sect;](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **3.7.1** | [MODIFIED] Verify that the application requires re-authentication or secondary verification before allowing highly sensitive transactions, modifications to account profile or authentication settings, or a large export of sensitive data. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 306 | |

## V3.8 Session Termination

Session termination may be handled either by the application itself or by the SSO provider if the SSO provider is handling session management instead of the application. It may be necessary to decide whether the SSO provider is in scope when considering the requirements in this section as some may be controlled by the provider.

Session termination should result in requiring re-authentication and be effective across the application, federated login (if present), and any relying parties.

For stateful session mechanisms, this should just require invalidating the session at the backend. If a stateless session mechanism with signed tokens is being used, a way to revoke these tokens will be needed.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE | [NIST &sect;](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **3.8.1** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 3.3.1] Verify that logout and expiration terminate the user's session, such that the back button or a downstream relying party cannot resume an authenticated session. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 613 | 7.1 |
| **3.8.2** | [MODIFIED, LEVEL L2 > L1, MOVED FROM 3.3.3] Verify that the application gives the option to terminate all other active sessions after a successful change or removal of any authentication factor (including password change via reset or recovery and, if present, an MFA settings update). | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 613 | |
| **3.8.3** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 3.3.4] Verify that users are able to view and (having re-entered login credentials) terminate any or all currently active sessions. | | ✓ | ✓ | 613 | 7.1 |
| **3.8.4** | [ADDED] Verify that all pages that require authentication have easy and visible access to logout functionality. | | ✓ | ✓ | | |
| **3.8.5** | [ADDED] Verify that the application terminates all active sessions when a user account is disabled or deleted (such as an employee leaving the company). | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 613 | |
| **3.8.6** | [ADDED] Verify that application administrators are able to terminate active sessions for an individual user or for all users. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 613 | 7.1 |

## References

For more information, see also:

* [OWASP Testing Guide 4.0: Session Management Testing](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/v41/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/06-Session_Management_Testing/README.html)
* [OWASP Session Management Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Session_Management_Cheat_Sheet.html)
* [Set-Cookie __Host- prefix details](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie#cookie_prefixes)
