5.0/en/0x16-V8-Data-Protection.md, before:

# V8 Data Protection

## Control Objective

There are three key elements to sound data protection: Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability (CIA). This standard assumes that data protection is enforced on a trusted system, such as a server, which has been hardened and has sufficient protections.

Applications have to assume that all user devices are compromised in some way. Where an application transmits or stores sensitive information on insecure devices, such as shared computers, phones and tablets, the application is responsible for ensuring data stored on these devices is encrypted and cannot be easily illicitly obtained, altered or disclosed.

Ensure that a verified application satisfies the following high-level data protection requirements:

* Confidentiality: Data should be protected from unauthorized observation or disclosure both in transit and when stored.
* Integrity: Data should be protected from being maliciously created, altered or deleted by unauthorized attackers.
* Availability: Data should be available to authorized users as required.

## V8.1 General Data Protection

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **8.1.1** | [MODIFIED, MERGED FROM 8.1.2] Verify that the application prevents sensitive data from being cached in server components such as load balancers and application caches or ensures that the data is securely purged after use. | | ✓ | ✓ | 524 |
| **8.1.2** | [DELETED, MERGED TO 8.1.1] | | | | |
| **8.1.3** | [DELETED, INSUFFICIENT IMPACT] | | | | |
| **8.1.4** | Verify the application can detect and alert on abnormal numbers of requests, such as by IP, user, total per hour or day, or whatever makes sense for the application. | | ✓ | ✓ | 770 |
| **8.1.5** | [DELETED, NOT IN SCOPE] | | | | |
| **8.1.6** | [DELETED, NOT IN SCOPE] | | | | |
| **8.1.7** | [ADDED] Verify that caching mechanisms are configured to only cache responses which have the correct content type and do not contain sensitive, dynamic content. The web server should return a 404 or 302 response when an non-existent file is accessed rather than returning a different, valid file. This should prevent Web Cache Deception attacks. | | ✓ | ✓ | 444 |
| **8.1.8** | [ADDED] Verify that defined sensitive data is not sent to untrusted parties (e.g. user trackers) to prevent unwanted collection of data outside of the application's control. | | ✓ | ✓ | 200 |

## V8.2 Client-side Data Protection

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **8.2.1** | [MODIFIED] Verify that the application sets sufficient anti-caching headers (i.e. Cache-Control: no-store) so that sensitive data is not cached in browsers. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 525 |
| **8.2.2** | [MODIFIED, MERGED FROM 3.2.3] Verify that data stored in browser storage (such as localStorage, sessionStorage, IndexedDB, or cookies) does not contain sensitive data, with the exception of session tokens which should be stored in either cookies or sessionStorage. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 922 |
| **8.2.3** | [MODIFIED] Verify that authenticated data is cleared from client storage, such as the browser DOM, after the client or session is terminated. The "Clear-Site-Data header" may be able to help with this but the client-side should also be able to clear up if the server connection is lost. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 922 |

## V8.3 Sensitive Private Data

This section helps protect sensitive data from being created, read, updated, or deleted without authorization, particularly in bulk quantities.

Compliance with this section implies compliance with V4 Access Control, and in particular V4.2. For example, to protect against unauthorized updates or disclosure of sensitive personal information requires adherence to V4.2.1. Please comply with this section and V4 for full coverage.

Note: Privacy regulations and laws, such as the Australian Privacy Principles APP-11 or GDPR, directly affect how applications must approach the implementation of storage, use, and transmission of sensitive personal information. This ranges from severe penalties to simple advice. Please consult your local laws and regulations, and consult a qualified privacy specialist or lawyer as required.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **8.3.1** | [MODIFIED, MERGED FROM 3.1.1, 13.1.3] Verify that sensitive data is only sent to the server in the HTTP message body or headers and that the URL and query string do not contain sensitive information, such as an API key or session token. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 598 |
| **8.3.2** | [MODIFIED, SPLIT TO 8.3.9, LEVEL L1 > L3] Verify that users have a method to remove their data on demand. | | | ✓ | |
| **8.3.3** | [MODIFIED, LEVEL L1 > L3] Verify that the application provides guidance regarding how it collects and uses of personal data and that users have to provide opt-in consent for this use. | | | ✓ | |
| **8.3.4** | [DELETED, MERGED TO 1.8.1] | | | | |
| **8.3.5** | [MOVED TO 7.2.7] | | | | |
| **8.3.6** | [DELETED, NOT PRACTICAL] | | | | |
| **8.3.7** | Verify that sensitive or private information that is required to be encrypted, is encrypted using approved algorithms that provide both confidentiality and integrity. | | ✓ | ✓ | 327 |
| **8.3.8** | Verify that sensitive personal information is subject to data retention classification, such that old or out of date data is deleted automatically, on a schedule, or as the situation requires. | | ✓ | ✓ | |
| **8.3.9** | [ADDED, SPLIT FROM 8.3.2] Verify that users have a method to export their data on demand. | | | ✓ | |
| **8.3.10** | [ADDED] Verify that sensitive information is removed from the metadata of user-submitted files unless storage is consented to by the user. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 212 |
| **8.3.11** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 10.2.2, LEVEL L2 > L1] Verify that the application does not ask for unnecessary or excessive permissions to privacy related features or sensors, such as cameras, microphones, or location. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 272 |

When considering data protection, a primary consideration should be around bulk extraction or modification or excessive usage. For example, many social media systems only allow users to add 100 new friends per day, but which system these requests came from is not important. A banking platform might wish to block more than 5 transactions per hour transferring more than 1000 euro of funds to external institutions. Each system's requirements are likely to be very different, so deciding on "abnormal" must consider the threat model and business risk. Important criteria are the ability to detect, deter, or preferably block such abnormal bulk actions.

## References

For more information, see also:

* [Consider using the Security Headers website to check security and anti-caching headers](https://securityheaders.com/)
* [Documentation about anti-caching headers by Mozilla](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Caching)
* [OWASP Secure Headers project](https://owasp.org/www-project-secure-headers/)
* [OWASP Privacy Risks Project](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-10-privacy-risks/)
* [OWASP User Privacy Protection Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/User_Privacy_Protection_Cheat_Sheet.html)
* [Australian Privacy Principle 11 - Security of personal information](https://www.oaic.gov.au/privacy/australian-privacy-principles/australian-privacy-principles-guidelines/chapter-11-app-11-security-of-personal-information)
* [European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) overview](https://www.edps.europa.eu/data-protection_en)
* [European Union Data Protection Supervisor - Internet Privacy Engineering Network](https://www.edps.europa.eu/data-protection/ipen-internet-privacy-engineering-network_en)
* [Information on the "Clear-Site-Data" header](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Clear-Site-Data)
* [White paper on Web Cache Deception](https://www.blackhat.com/docs/us-17/wednesday/us-17-Gil-Web-Cache-Deception-Attack-wp.pdf)

Commit message:

Resolve #2007 by clarifying the protection level concept for data storage and splitting to documentation and implementation requirements (#2052)

5.0/en/0x16-V8-Data-Protection.md, after:

# V8 Data Protection

## Control Objective

There are three key elements to sound data protection: Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability (CIA). This standard assumes that data protection is enforced on a trusted system, such as a server, which has been hardened and has sufficient protections.

Applications have to assume that all user devices are compromised in some way. Where an application transmits or stores sensitive information on insecure devices, such as shared computers, phones and tablets, the application is responsible for ensuring data stored on these devices is encrypted and cannot be easily illicitly obtained, altered or disclosed.

Ensure that a verified application satisfies the following high-level data protection requirements:

* Confidentiality: Data should be protected from unauthorized observation or disclosure both in transit and when stored.
* Integrity: Data should be protected from being maliciously created, altered or deleted by unauthorized attackers.
* Availability: Data should be available to authorized users as required.

## V8.1 General Data Protection

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **8.1.1** | [MODIFIED, MERGED FROM 8.1.2] Verify that the application prevents sensitive data from being cached in server components such as load balancers and application caches or ensures that the data is securely purged after use. | | ✓ | ✓ | 524 |
| **8.1.2** | [DELETED, MERGED TO 8.1.1] | | | | |
| **8.1.3** | [DELETED, INSUFFICIENT IMPACT] | | | | |
| **8.1.4** | Verify the application can detect and alert on abnormal numbers of requests, such as by IP, user, total per hour or day, or whatever makes sense for the application. | | ✓ | ✓ | 770 |
| **8.1.5** | [DELETED, NOT IN SCOPE] | | | | |
| **8.1.6** | [DELETED, NOT IN SCOPE] | | | | |
| **8.1.7** | [ADDED] Verify that caching mechanisms are configured to only cache responses which have the correct content type and do not contain sensitive, dynamic content. The web server should return a 404 or 302 response when an non-existent file is accessed rather than returning a different, valid file. This should prevent Web Cache Deception attacks. | | ✓ | ✓ | 444 |
| **8.1.8** | [ADDED] Verify that defined sensitive data is not sent to untrusted parties (e.g. user trackers) to prevent unwanted collection of data outside of the application's control. | | ✓ | ✓ | 200 |
| **8.1.9** | [ADDED, SPLIT FROM 1.8.2] Verify that controls around sensitive data are implemented as defined in the documentation for the specific data's protection level. | | ✓ | ✓ | |

## V8.2 Client-side Data Protection

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **8.2.1** | [MODIFIED] Verify that the application sets sufficient anti-caching headers (i.e. Cache-Control: no-store) so that sensitive data is not cached in browsers. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 525 |
| **8.2.2** | [MODIFIED, MERGED FROM 3.2.3] Verify that data stored in browser storage (such as localStorage, sessionStorage, IndexedDB, or cookies) does not contain sensitive data, with the exception of session tokens which should be stored in either cookies or sessionStorage. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 922 |
| **8.2.3** | [MODIFIED] Verify that authenticated data is cleared from client storage, such as the browser DOM, after the client or session is terminated. The "Clear-Site-Data header" may be able to help with this but the client-side should also be able to clear up if the server connection is lost. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 922 |

## V8.3 Sensitive Private Data

This section helps protect sensitive data from being created, read, updated, or deleted without authorization, particularly in bulk quantities.

Compliance with this section implies compliance with V4 Access Control, and in particular V4.2. For example, to protect against unauthorized updates or disclosure of sensitive personal information requires adherence to V4.2.1. Please comply with this section and V4 for full coverage.

Note: Privacy regulations and laws, such as the Australian Privacy Principles APP-11 or GDPR, directly affect how applications must approach the implementation of storage, use, and transmission of sensitive personal information. This ranges from severe penalties to simple advice. Please consult your local laws and regulations, and consult a qualified privacy specialist or lawyer as required.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **8.3.1** | [MODIFIED, MERGED FROM 3.1.1, 13.1.3] Verify that sensitive data is only sent to the server in the HTTP message body or headers and that the URL and query string do not contain sensitive information, such as an API key or session token. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 598 |
| **8.3.2** | [MODIFIED, SPLIT TO 8.3.9, LEVEL L1 > L3] Verify that users have a method to remove their data on demand. | | | ✓ | |
| **8.3.3** | [MODIFIED, LEVEL L1 > L3] Verify that the application provides guidance regarding how it collects and uses of personal data and that users have to provide opt-in consent for this use. | | | ✓ | |
| **8.3.4** | [DELETED, MERGED TO 1.8.1] | | | | |
| **8.3.5** | [MOVED TO 7.2.7] | | | | |
| **8.3.6** | [DELETED, NOT PRACTICAL] | | | | |
| **8.3.7** | Verify that sensitive or private information that is required to be encrypted, is encrypted using approved algorithms that provide both confidentiality and integrity. | | ✓ | ✓ | 327 |
| **8.3.8** | Verify that sensitive personal information is subject to data retention classification, such that old or out of date data is deleted automatically, on a schedule, or as the situation requires. | | ✓ | ✓ | |
| **8.3.9** | [ADDED, SPLIT FROM 8.3.2] Verify that users have a method to export their data on demand. | | | ✓ | |
| **8.3.10** | [ADDED] Verify that sensitive information is removed from the metadata of user-submitted files unless storage is consented to by the user. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 212 |
| **8.3.11** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 10.2.2, LEVEL L2 > L1] Verify that the application does not ask for unnecessary or excessive permissions to privacy related features or sensors, such as cameras, microphones, or location. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 272 |

When considering data protection, a primary consideration should be around bulk extraction or modification or excessive usage. For example, many social media systems only allow users to add 100 new friends per day, but which system these requests came from is not important. A banking platform might wish to block more than 5 transactions per hour transferring more than 1000 euro of funds to external institutions. Each system's requirements are likely to be very different, so deciding on "abnormal" must consider the threat model and business risk. Important criteria are the ability to detect, deter, or preferably block such abnormal bulk actions.

## References

For more information, see also:

* [Consider using the Security Headers website to check security and anti-caching headers](https://securityheaders.com/)
* [Documentation about anti-caching headers by Mozilla](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Caching)
* [OWASP Secure Headers project](https://owasp.org/www-project-secure-headers/)
* [OWASP Privacy Risks Project](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-10-privacy-risks/)
* [OWASP User Privacy Protection Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/User_Privacy_Protection_Cheat_Sheet.html)
* [Australian Privacy Principle 11 - Security of personal information](https://www.oaic.gov.au/privacy/australian-privacy-principles/australian-privacy-principles-guidelines/chapter-11-app-11-security-of-personal-information)
* [European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) overview](https://www.edps.europa.eu/data-protection_en)
* [European Union Data Protection Supervisor - Internet Privacy Engineering Network](https://www.edps.europa.eu/data-protection/ipen-internet-privacy-engineering-network_en)
* [Information on the "Clear-Site-Data" header](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Clear-Site-Data)
* [White paper on Web Cache Deception](https://www.blackhat.com/docs/us-17/wednesday/us-17-Gil-Web-Cache-Deception-Attack-wp.pdf)
