5.0/en/0x18-V10-Coding.md, before:

# V10 Secure Coding Architecture and Implementation

## Control Objective

Many ASVS requirements either relate to a particular area of security like authentication or access control or relate to a particular type of application functionality such as logging or file handling.

However, this chapter provides more general guidance on how to build applications and how to write secure code correctly. Not just from the perspective of clean architecture and code quality, but rather specific architecture and coding practices that need to be followed in order for the application to be secure.

This chapter also contains requirements to prevent the introduction of malicious code into the application.

## V1.10 Secure Coding Documentation

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **1.10.1** | [DELETED, NOT IN SCOPE] | | | | |
| **1.10.2** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 14.2.5, MERGED FROM 14.2.4] Verify that an inventory catalog, such as software bill of materials (SBOM), is maintained of all third-party libraries in use, including verifying that components come from pre-defined, trusted, and continually maintained repositories. | | ✓ | ✓ | |
| **1.10.3** | [ADDED, SPLIT FROM 14.2.6] Verify that application documentation highlights "risky" third party libraries which should include: libraries which perform operations which are dangerous from a security perspective, libraries which are poorly maintained, unsupported, or end of life, libraries which have historically had several significant vulnerabilities, etc. | | | ✓ | 1061 |
| **1.10.4** | [ADDED, SPLIT FROM 1.14.5] Verify that application documentation highlights parts of the application where "risky" operations are being performed. "Risky" in this context means those with a high likelihood of being dangerously exploited such as: deserialization of untrusted data, raw file parsing, direct memory manipulation, etc. | | | ✓ | |

## V10.1 Code Integrity

<!--
The best defense against malicious code is "trust, but verify". Introducing unauthorized or malicious code into code is often a criminal offense in many jurisdictions. Policies and procedures should make sanctions regarding malicious code clear.

Lead developers should regularly review code check-ins, particularly those that might access time, I/O, or network functions.
-->

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **10.1.1** | [DELETED, NOT IN SCOPE] | | | | |

## V10.2 Malicious Code Search

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **10.2.1** | [DELETED, NOT PRACTICAL] | | | | |
| **10.2.2** | [DELETED, NOT PRACTICAL] | | | | |
| **10.2.3** | [DELETED, NOT PRACTICAL] | | | | |
| **10.2.4** | [DELETED, NOT PRACTICAL] | | | | |
| **10.2.5** | [DELETED, NOT PRACTICAL] | | | | |
| **10.2.6** | [DELETED, NOT PRACTICAL] | | | | |

## V10.3 Application Integrity

Once an application is deployed, malicious code can still be inserted. Applications need to protect themselves against common attacks, such as executing unsigned code from untrusted sources and subdomain takeovers.

Complying with this section is likely to be operational and continuous.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **10.3.1** | [MODIFIED, LEVEL L1 > L3] Verify that, if the application has an auto-update feature, updates should be digitally signed, with the digital signature being validated before installing or executing the update. | | | ✓ | 16 |
| **10.3.2** | [MOVED TO 10.6.2] | | | | |
| **10.3.3** | [DELETED, NOT IN SCOPE] | | | | |

## V10.4 Defensive Coding

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **10.4.1** | [ADDED] Verify that the application explicitly ensures that variables are of the correct type and performs strict equality and comparator operations to avoid type juggling or type confusion vulnerabilities caused by the application code making an assumption about a variable type. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 843 |
| **10.4.2** | [ADDED] Verify that the application avoids DOM clobbering when using client-side JavaScript by employing explicit variable declarations, performing strict type checking, avoiding storing global variables on the document object, and implementing namespace isolation. | | ✓ | ✓ | 79 |
| **10.4.3** | [ADDED] Verify that JavaScript code is written in a way that prevents prototype pollution, for example, by using Set() or Map() instead of object literals. | | ✓ | ✓ | |
| **10.4.4** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 5.1.2] Verify that the application has countermeasures to protect against mass assignment attacks by limiting allowed fields per controller and action, e.g. it is not possible to insert or update a field value when it was not intended to be part of that action. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 915 |
| **10.4.5** | [ADDED] Verify that the application only returns data which the user has permission to access. For example, the API response does not return a full object with attributes that contain values the user has no permission to access, despite having permission to access the data object itself. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | |
| **10.4.6** | [ADDED] Verify that the application is able to discern and utilizes the user's true IP address to provide for sensitive functions, including rate limiting and logging. | | ✓ | ✓ | 348 |

## 10.5 Security Architecture

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **10.5.1** | [ADDED, SPLIT FROM 1.14.5, 14.2.6] Verify that the application implements additional protections around parts of the application which are documented as performing "risky" operations or using "risky" third-party libraries. This could include techniques such as sandboxing, encapsulation, containerization or network level isolation to delay and deter attackers who compromise one part of an application from pivoting elsewhere in the application. | | | ✓ | |

## 10.6 Code Dependencies

Dependency management is critical to the safe operation of any application of any type. Failure to keep up to date with outdated or insecure dependencies is the root cause of the largest and most expensive attacks to date. While being up-to-date with patches is essential, relying solely on updates for publicly disclosed vulnerabilities introduces risk, as vendors may fix security issues without public announcements.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **10.6.1** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 14.2.1] Verify that all components are up to date. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | |
| **10.6.2** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 10.3.2] Verify that third-party components and all of their transitive dependencies are included from the expected repository, whether internally owned or an external source, and that there is no risk of a dependency confusion attack. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 427 |

## V10.7 Concurrency

Without proper synchronization, concurrent access to shared resources can result in corrupted data, system crashes, or unreliable application behavior. Furthermore, race conditions can often be chained to perform privilege escalations or remote code execution.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **10.7.1** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 1.11.3] Verify that only thread-safe types are used in multi-threaded contexts, or that non-thread-safe types are properly synchronized to prevent race conditions. | | | ✓ | 362 |
| **10.7.2** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 1.11.2, LEVEL L2 > L3] Verify that concurrent access to shared resources is controlled using synchronization primitives (e.g., locks, mutexes, semaphores) to prevent race conditions and ensure atomic operations on these resources. | | | ✓ | 366 |
| **10.7.3** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 11.1.6] Verify that all access to shared resources is consistently checked and accessed in a single atomic operation to prevent Time-of-Check to Time-of-Use (TOC/TOU) race conditions, ensuring resource state consistency between check and use. | | ✓ | ✓ | 367 |
| **10.7.4** | [ADDED] Verify that resource acquisition uses a consistent locking strategy to avoid circular dependencies and ensure forward progress, preventing both deadlocks and livelock scenarios. | | | ✓ | 833 |
| **10.7.5** | [ADDED] Verify that resource allocation policies prevent thread starvation by ensuring fair access to resources, such as by leveraging thread pools, allowing lower-priority threads to proceed within a reasonable timeframe. | | | ✓ | 410 |
| **10.7.6** | [ADDED] Verify that locking primitives are only accessible to the owning class or module and are not publicly modifiable, ensuring that locks cannot be inadvertently or maliciously modified by external classes or code. | | | ✓ | 412 |

## References

For more information, see also:

* [Reference on Protecting against DOM Clobbering](https://domclob.xyz/domc_wiki/indicators/patterns.html#secure-patterns--guidelines)
* [OWASP Prototype Pollution Prevention Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Prototype_Pollution_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.html)
* [OWASP Mass Assignment Prevention Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Mass_Assignment_Cheat_Sheet.html)
* [Software Component Verification Standard V2 L1-3 requirements](https://github.com/OWASP/Software-Component-Verification-Standard/blob/master/en/0x11-V2-Software_Bill_of_Materials.md)

Commit message:

Resolve #2467 by splitting and clarifying the 3rd party vuln requirements (#2489)
* Resolve #2467 by splitting and clarifying the 3rd party vuln requirements

* tag fix

---------

Co-authored-by: Elar Lang <47597707+elarlang@users.noreply.github.com>

5.0/en/0x18-V10-Coding.md, after:

# V10 Secure Coding Architecture and Implementation

## Control Objective

Many ASVS requirements either relate to a particular area of security like authentication or access control or relate to a particular type of application functionality such as logging or file handling.

However, this chapter provides more general guidance on how to build applications and how to write secure code correctly. Not just from the perspective of clean architecture and code quality, but rather specific architecture and coding practices that need to be followed in order for the application to be secure.

This chapter also contains requirements to prevent the introduction of malicious code into the application.

## V1.10 Secure Coding Documentation

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **1.10.1** | [DELETED, NOT IN SCOPE] | | | | |
| **1.10.2** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 14.2.5, MERGED FROM 14.2.4] Verify that an inventory catalog, such as software bill of materials (SBOM), is maintained of all third-party libraries in use, including verifying that components come from pre-defined, trusted, and continually maintained repositories. | | ✓ | ✓ | |
| **1.10.3** | [ADDED, SPLIT FROM 14.2.6] Verify that application documentation highlights "risky" third party libraries which should include: libraries which perform operations which are dangerous from a security perspective, libraries which are poorly maintained, unsupported, or end of life, libraries which have historically had several significant vulnerabilities, etc. | | | ✓ | 1061 |
| **1.10.4** | [ADDED, SPLIT FROM 1.14.5] Verify that application documentation highlights parts of the application where "risky" operations are being performed. "Risky" in this context means those with a high likelihood of being dangerously exploited such as: deserialization of untrusted data, raw file parsing, direct memory manipulation, etc. | | | ✓ | |
| **1.10.4** | [ADDED, SPLIT FROM 14.2.1] Verify that application documentation defines risk based remediation time frames for 3rd party component versions with vulnerabilities and for updating libraries in general, to minimize the risk from these components. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | |

## V10.1 Code Integrity

<!--
The best defense against malicious code is "trust, but verify". Introducing unauthorized or malicious code into code is often a criminal offense in many jurisdictions. Policies and procedures should make sanctions regarding malicious code clear.

Lead developers should regularly review code check-ins, particularly those that might access time, I/O, or network functions.
-->

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **10.1.1** | [DELETED, NOT IN SCOPE] | | | | |

## V10.2 Malicious Code Search

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **10.2.1** | [DELETED, NOT PRACTICAL] | | | | |
| **10.2.2** | [DELETED, NOT PRACTICAL] | | | | |
| **10.2.3** | [DELETED, NOT PRACTICAL] | | | | |
| **10.2.4** | [DELETED, NOT PRACTICAL] | | | | |
| **10.2.5** | [DELETED, NOT PRACTICAL] | | | | |
| **10.2.6** | [DELETED, NOT PRACTICAL] | | | | |

## V10.3 Application Integrity

Once an application is deployed, malicious code can still be inserted. Applications need to protect themselves against common attacks, such as executing unsigned code from untrusted sources and subdomain takeovers.

Complying with this section is likely to be operational and continuous.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **10.3.1** | [MODIFIED, LEVEL L1 > L3] Verify that, if the application has an auto-update feature, updates should be digitally signed, with the digital signature being validated before installing or executing the update. | | | ✓ | 16 |
| **10.3.2** | [MOVED TO 10.6.2] | | | | |
| **10.3.3** | [DELETED, NOT IN SCOPE] | | | | |

## V10.4 Defensive Coding

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **10.4.1** | [ADDED] Verify that the application explicitly ensures that variables are of the correct type and performs strict equality and comparator operations to avoid type juggling or type confusion vulnerabilities caused by the application code making an assumption about a variable type. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 843 |
| **10.4.2** | [ADDED] Verify that the application avoids DOM clobbering when using client-side JavaScript by employing explicit variable declarations, performing strict type checking, avoiding storing global variables on the document object, and implementing namespace isolation. | | ✓ | ✓ | 79 |
| **10.4.3** | [ADDED] Verify that JavaScript code is written in a way that prevents prototype pollution, for example, by using Set() or Map() instead of object literals. | | ✓ | ✓ | |
| **10.4.4** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 5.1.2] Verify that the application has countermeasures to protect against mass assignment attacks by limiting allowed fields per controller and action, e.g. it is not possible to insert or update a field value when it was not intended to be part of that action. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 915 |
| **10.4.5** | [ADDED] Verify that the application only returns data which the user has permission to access. For example, the API response does not return a full object with attributes that contain values the user has no permission to access, despite having permission to access the data object itself. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | |
| **10.4.6** | [ADDED] Verify that the application is able to discern and utilizes the user's true IP address to provide for sensitive functions, including rate limiting and logging. | | ✓ | ✓ | 348 |

## 10.5 Security Architecture

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **10.5.1** | [ADDED, SPLIT FROM 1.14.5, 14.2.6] Verify that the application implements additional protections around parts of the application which are documented as performing "risky" operations or using "risky" third-party libraries. This could include techniques such as sandboxing, encapsulation, containerization or network level isolation to delay and deter attackers who compromise one part of an application from pivoting elsewhere in the application. | | | ✓ | |

## 10.6 Code Dependencies

Dependency management is critical to the safe operation of any application of any type. Failure to keep up to date with outdated or insecure dependencies is the root cause of the largest and most expensive attacks to date. While being up-to-date with patches is essential, relying solely on updates for publicly disclosed vulnerabilities introduces risk, as vendors may fix security issues without public announcements.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **10.6.1** | [ADDED, SPLIT FROM 14.2.1] Verify that the application only contains components which have not breached the documented update and remediation time frames. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | |
| **10.6.2** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 10.3.2] Verify that third-party components and all of their transitive dependencies are included from the expected repository, whether internally owned or an external source, and that there is no risk of a dependency confusion attack. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 427 |

## V10.7 Concurrency

Without proper synchronization, concurrent access to shared resources can result in corrupted data, system crashes, or unreliable application behavior. Furthermore, race conditions can often be chained to perform privilege escalations or remote code execution.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **10.7.1** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 1.11.3] Verify that only thread-safe types are used in multi-threaded contexts, or that non-thread-safe types are properly synchronized to prevent race conditions. | | | ✓ | 362 |
| **10.7.2** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 1.11.2, LEVEL L2 > L3] Verify that concurrent access to shared resources is controlled using synchronization primitives (e.g., locks, mutexes, semaphores) to prevent race conditions and ensure atomic operations on these resources. | | | ✓ | 366 |
| **10.7.3** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 11.1.6] Verify that all access to shared resources is consistently checked and accessed in a single atomic operation to prevent Time-of-Check to Time-of-Use (TOC/TOU) race conditions, ensuring resource state consistency between check and use. | | ✓ | ✓ | 367 |
| **10.7.4** | [ADDED] Verify that resource acquisition uses a consistent locking strategy to avoid circular dependencies and ensure forward progress, preventing both deadlocks and livelock scenarios. | | | ✓ | 833 |
| **10.7.5** | [ADDED] Verify that resource allocation policies prevent thread starvation by ensuring fair access to resources, such as by leveraging thread pools, allowing lower-priority threads to proceed within a reasonable timeframe. | | | ✓ | 410 |
| **10.7.6** | [ADDED] Verify that locking primitives are only accessible to the owning class or module and are not publicly modifiable, ensuring that locks cannot be inadvertently or maliciously modified by external classes or code. | | | ✓ | 412 |

## References

For more information, see also:

* [Reference on Protecting against DOM Clobbering](https://domclob.xyz/domc_wiki/indicators/patterns.html#secure-patterns--guidelines)
* [OWASP Prototype Pollution Prevention Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Prototype_Pollution_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.html)
* [OWASP Mass Assignment Prevention Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Mass_Assignment_Cheat_Sheet.html)
* [Software Component Verification Standard V2 L1-3 requirements](https://github.com/OWASP/Software-Component-Verification-Standard/blob/master/en/0x11-V2-Software_Bill_of_Materials.md)
