5.0/en/0x20-V12-Files-Resources.md, before:

# V12 File and Resources

## Control Objective

Ensure that a verified application satisfies the following high-level requirements:

* Untrusted file data should be handled accordingly and in a secure manner.
* Untrusted file data obtained from untrusted sources are stored outside the web root and with limited permissions.

## V12.1 File Upload

Although zip bombs can be effectively tested using penetration testing techniques, they are classified as L2 and above to encourage consideration during design and development, as well as careful manual testing. This classification also aims to prevent automated or unskilled manual penetration testing from triggering a denial of service condition.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **12.1.1** | [MODIFIED] Verify that the application will only accept files of a size which it can process without causing a loss of performance or denial of service attack. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 400 |
| **12.1.2** | Verify that the application checks compressed files (e.g. zip, gz, docx, odt) against maximum allowed uncompressed size and against maximum number of files before uncompressing the file. | | ✓ | ✓ | 409 |
| **12.1.3** | Verify that a file size quota and maximum number of files per user is enforced to ensure that a single user cannot fill up the storage with too many files, or excessively large files. | | ✓ | ✓ | 770 |
| **12.1.4** | [ADDED] Verify that the application does not allow uploading compressed files containing symlinks unless this is specifically required (in which case it will be necessary to enforce an allowlist of the files that can be symlinked to). | | ✓ | ✓ | 61 |

## V12.2 File Integrity and Content

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **12.2.1** | [MODIFIED] Verify that when the application accepts a file, either on its own or within an archive such as a zip file, it checks if the file extension matches an expected file extension and validates that the contents correspond to the type represented by the extension. This includes, but is not limited to, checking the initial 'magic bytes', performing image re-writing, and using specialized libraries for file content validation. | | ✓ | ✓ | 434 |
| **12.2.2** | [ADDED] Verify that the application blocks uploaded images with a pixel size larger than the maximum allowed, to prevent pixel flood attacks. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 400 |

## V12.3 File Execution

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **12.3.1** | [MODIFIED, MERGED FROM 12.3.2, 12.3.3, 5.3.9] Verify that file operations avoid using user-submitted filenames or file metadata when creating file paths to protect against path traversal, local or remote file inclusion (LFI, RFI), and server-side request forgery (SSRF) attacks. Instead, use internal, trusted data for file I/O. If user-submitted filenames or file metadata must be used, strict validation and sanitization must be applied. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 73 |
| **12.3.2** | [DELETED, MERGED TO 12.3.1] | | | | |
| **12.3.3** | [DELETED, MERGED TO 12.3.1] | | | | |
| **12.3.4** | [MOVED TO 12.5.3] | | | | |
| **12.3.5** | [DELETED, DUPLICATE OF 5.3.8] | | | | |
| **12.3.6** | [DELETED, DUPLICATE OF 50.6.1] | | | | |
| **12.3.7** | [ADDED] Verify that server-side file processing such as file decompression ignores user-provided path information to prevent vulnerabilities such as zip slip. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 23 |

## V12.4 File Storage

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **12.4.1** | [MODIFIED] Verify that files uploaded or generated by untrusted input which are stored in a public folder are not executable as server-side program code when accessed directly by an end user. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 552 |
| **12.4.2** | Verify that files obtained from untrusted sources are scanned by antivirus scanners to prevent upload and serving of known malicious content. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 509 |

## V12.5 File Download

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **12.5.1** | [MOVED TO 14.3.6] | | | | |
| **12.5.2** | [MOVED TO 50.5.1] | | | | |
| **12.5.3** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 12.3.4] Verify that the application validates or ignores user-submitted filenames, including in a JSON, JSONP, or URL parameter and specifies a filename in the Content-Disposition header field in the response. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 641 |
| **12.5.4** | [ADDED] Verify that file names served (e.g., in HTTP response header fields or email attachments) are encoded or sanitized (e.g., following RFC 6266) to preserve document structure and prevent injection attacks. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | |

## V12.6 SSRF Protection

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **12.6.1** | [MOVED TO 14.6.1] | | | | |

## V12.7 Application Resources

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **12.7.1** | [ADDED] Verify that the application proactively releases system resources, such as database connections, open files, threads, etc, when it finishes using them to prevent resource exhaustion. | | ✓ | ✓ | 404 |

## References

For more information, see also:

* [File Extension Handling for Sensitive Information](https://owasp.org/www-community/vulnerabilities/Unrestricted_File_Upload)
* [OWASP Third Party JavaScript Management Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Third_Party_Javascript_Management_Cheat_Sheet.html)
* [Example of using symlinks for arbitrary file read](https://hackerone.com/reports/1439593)
* [Explanation of "Magic Bytes" from Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_file_signatures)

Commit message:

Resolve #2224 by cleaning up V12 text (#2225)
* Update 0x20-V12-Files-Resources.md

relating to issue https://github.com/OWASP/ASVS/issues/2224

* Clarify section wording

* Update 0x20-V12-Files-Resources.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Josh Grossman <tghosth@users.noreply.github.com>

5.0/en/0x20-V12-Files-Resources.md, after:

# V12 File and Resources

## Control Objective

Ensure that untrusted files and other resources are handled safely to prevent denial of service, unauthorized access, and resource exhaustion

## V12.1 File Upload

Upload functionality is a key source of untrusted files. These should be carefully validated to prevent risks such as denial of service, unauthorized access, and resource exhaustion.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **12.1.1** | [MODIFIED] Verify that the application will only accept files of a size which it can process without causing a loss of performance or denial of service attack. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 400 |
| **12.1.2** | Verify that the application checks compressed files (e.g. zip, gz, docx, odt) against maximum allowed uncompressed size and against maximum number of files before uncompressing the file. | | ✓ | ✓ | 409 |
| **12.1.3** | Verify that a file size quota and maximum number of files per user is enforced to ensure that a single user cannot fill up the storage with too many files, or excessively large files. | | ✓ | ✓ | 770 |
| **12.1.4** | [ADDED] Verify that the application does not allow uploading compressed files containing symlinks unless this is specifically required (in which case it will be necessary to enforce an allowlist of the files that can be symlinked to). | | ✓ | ✓ | 61 |

## V12.2 File Integrity and Content

Uploaded files and uploaded files within archives must match expected file types and content formats, and oversized images must be blocked to prevent pixel flood attacks.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **12.2.1** | [MODIFIED] Verify that when the application accepts a file, either on its own or within an archive such as a zip file, it checks if the file extension matches an expected file extension and validates that the contents correspond to the type represented by the extension. This includes, but is not limited to, checking the initial 'magic bytes', performing image re-writing, and using specialized libraries for file content validation. | | ✓ | ✓ | 434 |
| **12.2.2** | [ADDED] Verify that the application blocks uploaded images with a pixel size larger than the maximum allowed, to prevent pixel flood attacks. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 400 |

## V12.3 File Execution

File operations should not rely on user-submitted filenames or metadata to avoid path traversal and inclusion attacks, and server-side file processing should ignore user-provided path details to prevent vulnerabilities like zip slip.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **12.3.1** | [MODIFIED, MERGED FROM 12.3.2, 12.3.3, 5.3.9] Verify that file operations avoid using user-submitted filenames or file metadata when creating file paths to protect against path traversal, local or remote file inclusion (LFI, RFI), and server-side request forgery (SSRF) attacks. Instead, use internal, trusted data for file I/O. If user-submitted filenames or file metadata must be used, strict validation and sanitization must be applied. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 73 |
| **12.3.2** | [DELETED, MERGED TO 12.3.1] | | | | |
| **12.3.3** | [DELETED, MERGED TO 12.3.1] | | | | |
| **12.3.4** | [MOVED TO 12.5.3] | | | | |
| **12.3.5** | [DELETED, DUPLICATE OF 5.3.8] | | | | |
| **12.3.6** | [DELETED, DUPLICATE OF 50.6.1] | | | | |
| **12.3.7** | [ADDED] Verify that server-side file processing such as file decompression ignores user-provided path information to prevent vulnerabilities such as zip slip. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 23 |

## V12.4 File Storage

Files from untrusted sources, when stored in public folders, must not be executable as server-side code. Files from untrusted sources must also be scanned by antivirus software to prevent serving malicious content.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **12.4.1** | [MODIFIED] Verify that files uploaded or generated by untrusted input which are stored in a public folder are not executable as server-side program code when accessed directly by an end user. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 552 |
| **12.4.2** | Verify that files obtained from untrusted sources are scanned by antivirus scanners to prevent upload and serving of known malicious content. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 509 |

## V12.5 File Download

User-submitted filenames should be validated or ignored in the Content-Disposition header for downloads, and that served filenames are encoded or sanitized to prevent injection attacks.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **12.5.1** | [MOVED TO 14.3.6] | | | | |
| **12.5.2** | [MOVED TO 50.5.1] | | | | |
| **12.5.3** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 12.3.4] Verify that the application validates or ignores user-submitted filenames, including in a JSON, JSONP, or URL parameter and specifies a filename in the Content-Disposition header field in the response. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 641 |
| **12.5.4** | [ADDED] Verify that file names served (e.g., in HTTP response header fields or email attachments) are encoded or sanitized (e.g., following RFC 6266) to preserve document structure and prevent injection attacks. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | |

## V12.6 SSRF Protection

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **12.6.1** | [MOVED TO 14.6.1] | | | | |

## V12.7 Application Resources

Applications must release system resources like database connections, open files, and threads after use to prevent resource exhaustion.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **12.7.1** | [ADDED] Verify that the application proactively releases system resources, such as database connections, open files, threads, etc, when it finishes using them to prevent resource exhaustion. | | ✓ | ✓ | 404 |

## References

For more information, see also:

* [File Extension Handling for Sensitive Information](https://owasp.org/www-community/vulnerabilities/Unrestricted_File_Upload)
* [OWASP Third Party JavaScript Management Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Third_Party_Javascript_Management_Cheat_Sheet.html)
* [Example of using symlinks for arbitrary file read](https://hackerone.com/reports/1439593)
* [Explanation of "Magic Bytes" from Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_file_signatures)
