5.0/en/0x21-V13-API.md, before:

# V13 API and Web Service

## Control Objective

Ensure that an application that exposes APIs for use by a web browser or other consumers (commonly using JSON, XML or GraphQL) has the relevant security configurations and mechanisms applied.

Please read this chapter in combination with all other chapters at this same level; we do not duplicate authentication, session management, or general input validation concerns. Rather, the general requirements from those chapters always apply and therefore this chapter can not be taken out of context and be tested separately.

## V1.13 API and Web Service Documentation

This is a placeholder for future documentation requirements.

## V13.1 Generic Web Service Security

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **13.1.1** | [MOVED TO 5.5.5] | | | | |
| **13.1.2** | [DELETED, DUPLICATE OF 4.3.1] | | | | |
| **13.1.3** | [DELETED, MERGED TO 8.3.1] | | | | |
| **13.1.4** | [DELETED, DUPLICATE OF 4.2.1] | | | | |
| **13.1.5** | [DELETED, INSUFFICIENT IMPACT] | | | | |
| **13.1.6** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 13.2.6, LEVEL L2 > L3] Verify that per-message digital signatures are used to provide additional assurance on top of transport protections for requests or transactions which are highly sensitive or which traverse a number of systems. | | | ✓ | 345 |
| **13.1.7** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 14.4.1] Verify that every HTTP response with a message body contains a Content-Type header field that matches the actual content of the response, including the charset parameter to specify safe character encoding (e.g., UTF-8, ISO-8859-1) according to IANA Media Types, such as "text/", "/+xml" and "/xml". | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 173 |

## V13.2 Web Services

As at this time, there is a "published version" of the JSON schema validation specification, which is considered production ready. However, there is not yet a version which is considered strictly "stable". As such, when considering using JSON schema validation, be sure to also apply the standard input validation guidance from Chapter 5 of ASVS.

Due to the lack of a formal stable version of the JSON schema validation specification, carefully monitor any JSON schema validation libraries in use, as they may need to be updated once the standard is formalized and bugs are ironed out of reference implementations.

Note: Due to issues with XXE attacks against DTDs, DTD validation should not be used, and framework DTD evaluation disabled as per the requirements set out in chapter V5.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **13.2.1** | [MOVED TO 13.6.2] | | | | |
| **13.2.2** | [MODIFIED, MERGED FROM 13.3.1, LEVEL L1 > L3] Verify that structured data objects are validated to ensure they are properly formed, followed by validation of each input field before any processing of that data takes place. This could involve implementing schema validation for formats like JSON and XML. | | | ✓ | 20 |
| **13.2.3** | [DELETED, MERGED TO 50.3.1] | | | | |
| **13.2.4** | [DELETED, DUPLICATE OF 11.1.4] | | | | |
| **13.2.5** | Verify that REST services explicitly check the incoming Content-Type to be the expected one, such as application/xml or application/json. | | ✓ | ✓ | 436 |
| **13.2.6** | [MOVED TO 13.1.6] | | | | |

## V13.3 SOAP Web Service

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **13.3.1** | [DELETED, MERGED TO 13.2.2] | | | | |
| **13.3.2** | [DELETED, DUPLICATE OF 13.2.6] | | | | |

## V13.4 GraphQL

GraphQL is becoming more common as a way of creating data rich clients which are not coupled to a varierty of different backend services. However, this mechanism also comes with some specific security considerations.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **13.4.1** | [GRAMMAR] Verify that a query allowlist or a combination of depth limiting and amount limiting is used to prevent GraphQL or data layer expression Denial of Service (DoS) as a result of expensive, nested queries. For more advanced scenarios, query cost analysis should be used. | | ✓ | ✓ | 770 |
| **13.4.2** | [MODIFIED] Verify that authorization logic is implemented at the business logic layer instead of the GraphQL or resolver layer. | | ✓ | ✓ | 285 |
| **13.4.3** | [ADDED] Verify that GraphQL introspection queries are disabled in the production environment unless the GraphQL API is meant to be used by other parties. | | ✓ | ✓ | |

## V13.5 WebSocket

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **13.5.1** | [ADDED] Verify that WebSocket over TLS (WSS) is used for all WebSocket connections. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 319 |
| **13.5.2** | [ADDED] Verify that, during the initial HTTP WebSocket handshake, the Origin header field is checked against a list of origins allowed for the application. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 346 |
| **13.5.3** | [ADDED] Verify that, if the application's standard session management cannot be used, dedicated tokens are being used for this which comply with the relevant Session Management security requirements. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 331 |
| **13.5.4** | [ADDED] Verify that dedicated WebSocket session management tokens are initially obtained or validated through the previously authenticated HTTPS session when transitioning an existing HTTPS session to a WebSocket channel. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 319 |

## V13.6 HTTP Request Header Validation

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **13.6.1** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 14.5.1] Verify that the application only responds to HTTP methods in use by the application or by the API (including OPTIONS during preflight requests) and unused methods (e.g. TRACE) are blocked. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 749 |
| **13.6.2** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 13.2.1] Verify that HTTP requests using the HEAD, OPTIONS, TRACE or GET verb do not modify any backend data structure or perform any state-changing actions. These requests are safe methods and should therefore not have any side effects. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 650 |
| **13.6.3** | [ADDED] Verify that all application components, including load balancers, firewalls, and application servers, comply with RFC 2616 by ignoring the Content-Length header field when a Transfer-Encoding header field is present, to prevent HTTP Request Smuggling. | | ✓ | ✓ | 444 |
| **13.6.4** | [ADDED] Verify that any HTTP header field used by the application and defined by intermediary devices like load balancers or proxies, such as X-Real-IP and X-Forwarded-*, cannot be overridden by the end-user. | | ✓ | ✓ | 346 |

## V13.7 HTTP/2

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **13.7.1** | [ADDED] Verify that the value in the Content-Length request header field matches the calculated length using the built-in mechanism. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 400 |
| **13.7.2** | [ADDED] Verify that all Transfer-Encoding header fields are stripped from the message or that the request is blocked entirely. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | |
| **13.7.3** | [ADDED] Verify that a full CRLF (\r\n) sequence is neutralized inside a HTTP/2 header. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 113 |

## References

For more information, see also:

* [OWASP REST Security Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/REST_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html)
* [JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org/specification.html)
* Resources on GraphQL Authorization from [graphql.org](https://graphql.org/learn/authorization/) and [Apollo](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/security/authentication/#authorization-methods).
* [WSTG - v4.2 | GraphQL Testing](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/v42/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/12-API_Testing/01-Testing_GraphQL)
* [WSTG - v4.1 | OWASP Foundation](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/v42/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/11-Client-side_Testing/10-Testing_WebSockets)

Commit message:

Add no redirect to HTTPS to resolve #2416

5.0/en/0x21-V13-API.md, after:

# V13 API and Web Service

## Control Objective

Ensure that an application that exposes APIs for use by a web browser or other consumers (commonly using JSON, XML or GraphQL) has the relevant security configurations and mechanisms applied.

Please read this chapter in combination with all other chapters at this same level; we do not duplicate authentication, session management, or general input validation concerns. Rather, the general requirements from those chapters always apply and therefore this chapter can not be taken out of context and be tested separately.

## V1.13 API and Web Service Documentation

This is a placeholder for future documentation requirements.

## V13.1 Generic Web Service Security

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **13.1.1** | [MOVED TO 5.5.5] | | | | |
| **13.1.2** | [DELETED, DUPLICATE OF 4.3.1] | | | | |
| **13.1.3** | [DELETED, MERGED TO 8.3.1] | | | | |
| **13.1.4** | [DELETED, DUPLICATE OF 4.2.1] | | | | |
| **13.1.5** | [DELETED, INSUFFICIENT IMPACT] | | | | |
| **13.1.6** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 13.2.6, LEVEL L2 > L3] Verify that per-message digital signatures are used to provide additional assurance on top of transport protections for requests or transactions which are highly sensitive or which traverse a number of systems. | | | ✓ | 345 |
| **13.1.7** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 14.4.1] Verify that every HTTP response with a message body contains a Content-Type header field that matches the actual content of the response, including the charset parameter to specify safe character encoding (e.g., UTF-8, ISO-8859-1) according to IANA Media Types, such as "text/", "/+xml" and "/xml". | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 173 |
| **13.1.8** | [ADDED] Verify that HTTPS-based endpoints will respond to non-encrypted HTTP requests with either an error or no response. It must not respond with a redirect to the HTTPS endpoint to avoid clients accidentally sending data over plaintext HTTP, but this not being discovered due to an automatic redirect. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | |

## V13.2 Web Services

As at this time, there is a "published version" of the JSON schema validation specification, which is considered production ready. However, there is not yet a version which is considered strictly "stable". As such, when considering using JSON schema validation, be sure to also apply the standard input validation guidance from Chapter 5 of ASVS.

Due to the lack of a formal stable version of the JSON schema validation specification, carefully monitor any JSON schema validation libraries in use, as they may need to be updated once the standard is formalized and bugs are ironed out of reference implementations.

Note: Due to issues with XXE attacks against DTDs, DTD validation should not be used, and framework DTD evaluation disabled as per the requirements set out in chapter V5.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **13.2.1** | [MOVED TO 13.6.2] | | | | |
| **13.2.2** | [MODIFIED, MERGED FROM 13.3.1, LEVEL L1 > L3] Verify that structured data objects are validated to ensure they are properly formed, followed by validation of each input field before any processing of that data takes place. This could involve implementing schema validation for formats like JSON and XML. | | | ✓ | 20 |
| **13.2.3** | [DELETED, MERGED TO 50.3.1] | | | | |
| **13.2.4** | [DELETED, DUPLICATE OF 11.1.4] | | | | |
| **13.2.5** | Verify that REST services explicitly check the incoming Content-Type to be the expected one, such as application/xml or application/json. | | ✓ | ✓ | 436 |
| **13.2.6** | [MOVED TO 13.1.6] | | | | |

## V13.3 SOAP Web Service

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **13.3.1** | [DELETED, MERGED TO 13.2.2] | | | | |
| **13.3.2** | [DELETED, DUPLICATE OF 13.2.6] | | | | |

## V13.4 GraphQL

GraphQL is becoming more common as a way of creating data rich clients which are not coupled to a varierty of different backend services. However, this mechanism also comes with some specific security considerations.

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **13.4.1** | [GRAMMAR] Verify that a query allowlist or a combination of depth limiting and amount limiting is used to prevent GraphQL or data layer expression Denial of Service (DoS) as a result of expensive, nested queries. For more advanced scenarios, query cost analysis should be used. | | ✓ | ✓ | 770 |
| **13.4.2** | [MODIFIED] Verify that authorization logic is implemented at the business logic layer instead of the GraphQL or resolver layer. | | ✓ | ✓ | 285 |
| **13.4.3** | [ADDED] Verify that GraphQL introspection queries are disabled in the production environment unless the GraphQL API is meant to be used by other parties. | | ✓ | ✓ | |

## V13.5 WebSocket

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **13.5.1** | [ADDED] Verify that WebSocket over TLS (WSS) is used for all WebSocket connections. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 319 |
| **13.5.2** | [ADDED] Verify that, during the initial HTTP WebSocket handshake, the Origin header field is checked against a list of origins allowed for the application. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 346 |
| **13.5.3** | [ADDED] Verify that, if the application's standard session management cannot be used, dedicated tokens are being used for this which comply with the relevant Session Management security requirements. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 331 |
| **13.5.4** | [ADDED] Verify that dedicated WebSocket session management tokens are initially obtained or validated through the previously authenticated HTTPS session when transitioning an existing HTTPS session to a WebSocket channel. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 319 |

## V13.6 HTTP Request Header Validation

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **13.6.1** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 14.5.1] Verify that the application only responds to HTTP methods in use by the application or by the API (including OPTIONS during preflight requests) and unused methods (e.g. TRACE) are blocked. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 749 |
| **13.6.2** | [MODIFIED, MOVED FROM 13.2.1] Verify that HTTP requests using the HEAD, OPTIONS, TRACE or GET verb do not modify any backend data structure or perform any state-changing actions. These requests are safe methods and should therefore not have any side effects. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 650 |
| **13.6.3** | [ADDED] Verify that all application components, including load balancers, firewalls, and application servers, comply with RFC 2616 by ignoring the Content-Length header field when a Transfer-Encoding header field is present, to prevent HTTP Request Smuggling. | | ✓ | ✓ | 444 |
| **13.6.4** | [ADDED] Verify that any HTTP header field used by the application and defined by intermediary devices like load balancers or proxies, such as X-Real-IP and X-Forwarded-*, cannot be overridden by the end-user. | | ✓ | ✓ | 346 |

## V13.7 HTTP/2

| # | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | CWE |
| :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **13.7.1** | [ADDED] Verify that the value in the Content-Length request header field matches the calculated length using the built-in mechanism. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 400 |
| **13.7.2** | [ADDED] Verify that all Transfer-Encoding header fields are stripped from the message or that the request is blocked entirely. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | |
| **13.7.3** | [ADDED] Verify that a full CRLF (\r\n) sequence is neutralized inside a HTTP/2 header. | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | 113 |

## References

For more information, see also:

* [OWASP REST Security Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/REST_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html)
* [JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org/specification.html)
* Resources on GraphQL Authorization from [graphql.org](https://graphql.org/learn/authorization/) and [Apollo](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/security/authentication/#authorization-methods).
* [WSTG - v4.2 | GraphQL Testing](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/v42/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/12-API_Testing/01-Testing_GraphQL)
* [WSTG - v4.1 | OWASP Foundation](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/v42/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/11-Client-side_Testing/10-Testing_WebSockets)
