# Appendix A: Glossary

* **Absolute Maximum Session Lifetime** – Also referred to as "Overall Timeout" by NIST, this is the maximal amount of time a session can remain active following authentication regardless of user interaction. This is a component of session expiration.
* **Allowlist** – A list of permitted data or operations, for example, a list of characters that are allowed to perform input validation.
* **Anti-forgery token** – A mechanism by which one or more tokens are passed in a request and validated by the application server to ensure that the request has come from an expected endpoint.
* **Application Security** – Application-level security focuses on the analysis of components that comprise the application layer of the Open Systems Interconnection Reference Model (OSI Model), rather than focusing on for example the underlying operating system or connected networks.
* **Application Security Verification** – The technical assessment of an application against the OWASP ASVS.
* **Application Security Verification Report** – A report that documents the overall results and supporting analysis produced by the verifier for a particular application.
* **Authentication** – The verification of the claimed identity of an application user.
* **Automated Verification** – The use of automated tools (either dynamic analysis tools, static analysis tools, or both) that use vulnerability signatures to find problems.
* **Black box testing** – A method of software testing that examines the functionality of an application without peering into its internal structures or workings.
* **Common Weakness Enumeration** (CWE) – A community-developed list of common software security weaknesses. It serves as a common language, a measuring stick for software security tools, and a baseline for weakness identification, mitigation, and prevention efforts.
* **Component** – A self-contained unit of code, with associated disk and network interfaces that communicates with other components.
* **Credential Service Provider** (CSP) – Also called an Identity Provider (IdP). A source of user data which may be used as an authentication source by other applications.
* **Cross-Site Script Inclusion** (XSSI) - A variant of Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) attack in which a web application retrieves malicious code from an external resource and includes that code as part of its own content.
* **Cross-Site Scripting** (XSS) – A security vulnerability typically found in web applications allowing the injection of client-side scripts into content.
* **Cryptographic module** – Hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements cryptographic algorithms and/or generates cryptographic keys.
* **Cryptographically secure pseudo-random number generator** (CSPRNG) - A pseudorandom number generator with properties that make it suitable for use in cryptography, also referred to as a cryptographic random number generator (CRNG).
* **Datagram Transport Layer Security** (DTLS) – A cryptographic protocol which provides communication security over a network connection. It is based on the TLS protocol but adapted for protecting datagram-oriented protocols (usually over UDP). Defined in RFC 9147 for DTLS 1.3.
* **Datagram Transport Layer Security Extension to Establish Keys for the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol** (DTLS-SRTP) – A mechanism for using a DTLS handshake for establishing key material for a SRTP session. Defined in RFC 5764.
* **Design Verification** – The technical assessment of the security architecture of an application.
* **Dynamic Application Security Testing** (DAST) – Technologies are designed to detect conditions indicative of a security vulnerability in an application in its running state.
* **Dynamic Verification** – The use of automated tools that use vulnerability signatures to find problems during the execution of an application.
* **Fast IDentity Online** (FIDO) – A set of authentication standards that allow a variety of different authentication methods to be used including biometrics, Trusted Platform Modules (TPMs), USB security tokens, etc.
* **Hardware Security Module** (HSM) – Hardware component that stores cryptographic keys and other secrets in a protected manner.
* **Hibernate Query Language** (HQL) – A query language that is similar in appearance to SQL used by the Hibernate ORM library.
* **HTTP Strict Transport Security** (HSTS) – An policy which instructs the browser to only connect to the domain returning the header via TLS and when a valid certificate is presented. It is activated using the Strict-Transport-Security response header field.
* **HyperText Transfer Protocol** (HTTP) – An application protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypermedia information systems. It is the foundation of data communication for the World Wide Web.
* **HyperText Transfer Protocol over SSL/TLS** (HTTPS) – A method of securing HTTP communication by encrypting it using Transport Layer Security (TLS).
* **Identity Provider** (IdP) – Also called a Credential Service Provider (CSP) in NIST references. An entity that provides an authentication source for other applications.
* **Inactivity Timeout** – This is the length of time a session can remain active in the absence of user interaction with the application. This is a component of session expiration.
* **Input Validation** – The canonicalization and validation of untrusted user input.
* **JSON Web Token** (JWT) – RFC 7519 defines a standard for a JSON data object made up of a header section which explains how to validate the object, a body section containing a set of claims, and a signature section which contains a digital signature which can be used to validate the contents of the body section. It is a type of self-contained token.
* **Local File Inclusion** (LFI) - An attack that exploits vulnerable file inclusion procedures in an application, leading to the inclusion of local files already present on the server.
* **Malicious Code** – Code introduced into an application during its development unbeknownst to the application owner, which circumvents the application's intended security policy. Not the same as malware such as a virus or worm!
* **Malware** – Executable code that is introduced into an application during runtime without the knowledge of the application user or administrator.
* **Message authentication code** (MAC) - A cryptographic checksum on data, computed by a MAC generation algorithm, that is used to provide assurance on its integrity and authenticity.
* **Multi-factor authentication** (MFA) – Authentication which includes two or more of the single factors.
* **Mutual TLS** (mTLS) – See TLS client authentication.
* **Object-relational Mapping** (ORM) – A system used to allow a relational/table-based database to be referenced and queried within an application program using an application-compatible object model.
* **One-time Password** (OTP) – A password that is uniquely generated to be used on a single occasion.
* **Open Worldwide Application Security Project** (OWASP) – The Open Worldwide Application Security Project (OWASP) is a worldwide free and open community focused on improving the security of application software. Our mission is to make application security "visible," so that people and organizations can make informed decisions about application security risks. See: [https://www.owasp.org/](https://www.owasp.org/).
* **Password-Based Key Derivation Function 2** (PBKDF2) – A special one-way algorithm used to create a strong cryptographic key from an input text (such as a password) and an additional random salt value and can therefore be used to make it harder to crack a password offline if the resulting value is stored instead of the original password.
* **Public Key Infrastructure** (PKI) – An arrangement that binds public keys with respective identities of entities. The binding is established through a process of registration and issuance of certificates at and by a certificate authority (CA).
* **Public Switched Telephone Network** (PSTN) – The traditional telephone network that includes both fixed-line telephones and mobile telephones.
* **Real-time Transport Protocol** (RTP) and **Real-time Transport Control Protocol** (RTCP) – Two protocols used in association for transporting multimedia streams. Used by the WebRTC stack. Defined in RFC 3550.
* **Reference Token** – A type of token that acts as a pointer or identifier to state or metadata stored on a server, sometimes referred to as random tokens or opaque tokens. Unlike self-contained tokens, which embed some of their relevant data within the token itself, reference tokens contain no intrinsic information, instead relying on the server for context. The reference token will either be or contain a session identifier.
* **Relying Party** (RP) – Generally an application which is relying on a user having authenticated against a separate authentication provider. The application relies on some sort of token or set of signed assertions provided by that authentication provider to trust that the user is who they say they are.
* **Remote File Inclusion** (RFI) - An attack that exploits vulnerable inclusion procedures in the application, resulting in the inclusion of remote files.
* **Scalable Vector Graphics** (SVG) – An XML-based markup language for describing two-dimensional based vector graphics.
* **Secure Real-time Transport Protocol** (SRTP) and **Secure Real-time Transport Control Protocol** (SRTCP) – A profile of the RTP and RTCP protocols providing support for message encryption, authentication and integrity protection. Defined in RFC 3711.
* **Security Architecture** – An abstraction of an application's design that identifies and describes where and how security controls are used, and also identifies and describes the location and sensitivity of both user and application data.
* **Security Assertion Markup Language** (SAML) – An open standard for single sign-on authentication based on passing signed assertions (usually XML objects) between the identity provider and the relying party.
* **Security Configuration** – The runtime configuration of an application that affects how security controls are used.
* **Security Control** – A function or component that performs a security check (e.g., an authorization check) or when called results in a security effect (e.g., generating an audit record).
* **Security information and event management** (SIEM) - A system for threat detection, compliance and security incident management through the collection and analysis of security-related data from various sources within an organization's IT infrastructure.
* **Self-Contained Token** – A token that encapsulates one or more attributes that do not rely on server-side state or other external storage. These tokens ensure the authenticity and integrity of their contained attributes, enabling secure, "stateless" information exchange across systems. Self-contained tokens are generally secured using cryptographic techniques, such as digital signatures or message authentication codes (MACs), to ensure the authenticity, integrity, and in some cases the confidentiality of its data. Common examples include SAML Assertions and JWTs.
* **Server-side Request Forgery** (SSRF) – An attack that abuses functionality on the server to read or update internal resources. The attacker supplies or modifies a URL, which the code running on the server will read or submit data to.
* **Session Description Protocol** (SDP) – A message format for setting up multimedia session (used for example in WebRTC). Defined in RFC 4566.
* **Session Identifier** or **Session ID** – A key which identifies a stateful session stored at the back end. Will be transferred to and from the client either as or inside a "Reference Token".
* **Session Token** – A "catch-all" phrase used in this standard to refer to the token or value used in either stateless session mechanisms (which use a self-contained token) or stateful session mechanisms (which use a reference token).
* **Session Traversal Utilities for NAT** (STUN) – A protocol used to assist NAT traversal in order to establish peer-to-peer communications. Defined in RFC 3489.
* **Single-factor authenticator** – A mechanism to check that a user is authenticated. It should either be something you know (memorized secrets, passwords, passphrases, PINs), something you are (biometrics, fingerprint, face scans), or something you have (OTP tokens, a cryptographic device such as a smart card).
* **Single Sign-on Authentication** (SSO) – This occurs when a user logs into one application and is then automatically logged into other applications without having to re-authenticate. For example, when logging into Google, the user will be automatically logged into other Google services such as YouTube, Google Docs, and Gmail.
* **Software bill of materials** (SBOM) - A structured, comprehensive list of all components, modules, libraries, frameworks and other resources required to build or assemble a software application.
* **Software Composition Analysis** (SCA) – A set of technologies designed to analyze application composition, dependencies, libraries and packages for security vulnerabilities of specific component versions in use. This is not to be confused with source-code analysis which is now commonly referred to as SAST.
* **Software development lifecycle** (SDLC) – The step-by-step process by which software is developed going from the initial requirements to deployment and maintenance.
* **SQL Injection** (SQLi) – A code injection technique used to attack data-driven applications, in which malicious SQL statements are inserted into an entry point.
* **Stateful Session Mechanism** – In a stateful session mechanism, the application retains session state at the backend which typically corresponds to a session token, generated using a cryptographically secure pseudo-random number generator (CSPRNG), which is issued to the end user.
* **Stateless Session Mechanism** – A stateless session mechanism will use a self-contained token which is passed to clients, and contains session information that is not necessarily stored within the service which then receives and validates the token. In reality, a service will need to have access to some session information (such as a JWT revocation list) in order to be able to enforce required security controls.
* **Static application security testing** (SAST) – A set of technologies designed to analyze application source code, byte code and binaries for coding and design conditions that are indicative of security vulnerabilities. SAST solutions analyze an application from the “inside out” in a non-running state.
* **Threat Modeling** – A technique consisting of developing increasingly refined security architectures to identify threat agents, security zones, security controls, and important technical and business assets.
* **Time-of-check to time-of-use** (TOCTOU) – A situation where an application checks the state of a resource before using that resource, but the resource's state can be changed between the check and the use. This can invalidate the results of the check and cause a situation where the application performs invalid actions due to this state mismatch.
* **Time based One-time Passwords** (TOTPs) - A method of generating an OTP where the current time acts as part of the algorithm to generate the password.
* **TLS client authentication**, also called **Mutual TLS** (mTLS) – In a standard TLS connection, a client can use the certificate provided by the server to validate the server's identity. Where TLS client authentication is used, the client also uses its own private key and certificate to allow the server to also validate the client's identity.
* **Transport Layer Security** (TLS) – Cryptographic protocols that provide communication security over a network connection.
* **Traversal Using Relays around NAT** (TURN) – An extension of the STUN protocol using a TURN server as a relay when direct peer-to-peer connections cannot be established. Defined in RFC 8656.
* **Trusted execution environment** (TEE) - An isolated processing environment in which applications can be securely executed irrespective of the rest of the system.
* **Trusted Platform Module** (TPM) – A type of HSM that is usually attached to a larger hardware component such as a motherboard and acts as the "root of trust" for that system.
* **Trusted Service Layer** – Any trusted control enforcement point, such as a microservice, serverless API, server-side, a trusted API on a client device that has secure boot, partner or external APIs, and so on. Trusted means that there is no concern that an untrusted user will be able to bypass or skip the layer or controls implemented at that layer.
* **Uniform Resource Identifier** (URI)- A unique string of characters that identifies a resource, such as webpage, mail address, places.
* **Uniform Resource Locator** (URL) – A string that specifies the location of resource on the Internet.
* **Universally Unique Identifier** (UUID) – A unique reference number used as an identifier in software.
* **Verifier** – The person or team that is reviewing an application against the OWASP ASVS requirements.
* **Web Real-Time Communication** (WebRTC) – A protocol stack and associated web API used for the transport of multimedia streams in web applications, usually in the context of teleconferencing. Based on SRTP, SRTCP, DTLS, SDP and STUN/TURN.
* **WebSocket over TLS** (WSS) – A practice of securing WebSocket communication by layering WebSocket over TLS protocol.
* **What You See Is What You Get** (WYSIWYG) – A type of rich content editor that shows how the content will actually look when rendered rather than showing the coding used to govern the rendering.
* **X.509 Certificate** – An X.509 certificate is a digital certificate that uses the widely accepted international X.509 public key infrastructure (PKI) standard to verify that a public key belongs to the user, computer or service identity contained within the certificate.
* **XML eXternal Entity** (XXE) – A type of XML entity that can access local or remote content via a declared system identifier. This may lead to various injection attacks.
